
The term " employment manager " is still new in the
commercial and industrial world. Any attempt to de-
fine this official's functions or to describe his methods
is certain to be disappointing because of its lack of
definiteness and the numerous inconsistencies and con-
flicting theories revealed by current practice. Because
of the rapid development and constantly changing
ideals of the employment management movement, it is
difficult to predict even the general trend of what the
next decade will regard as successful conduct of certain
phases of the work. Enough has been done, however,
by many progressive firms to make a summary of their
efforts of value, if not as a statement of fixed principles
and policies, at least by way of suggesting the possi-
bilities and pointing out the profitable avenues of
advancement.

The present volume is made possible through the
willingness of busy superintendents and employment
managers to participate in a co-operative attempt to
study their methods and formulate a statement of the
sort indicated above. Thanks are particularly due to
members of the Boston Employment Managers' As-
sociation and to their secretary. Information was very
gladly and courteously given, not only by firms who
were members of this Association, but by other busi-
ness houses visited by the writer. Appreciation is
likewise due to The Vocation Bureau, of Boston, and

iii



N V PREFACE

to Professor Paul H. Hanus, of Harvard University,
for valuable assistance in many details of the investi-
gation. Parts of several chapters first appeared in
Industrial Management (the Engineering Magazine).
The bibliography (Chapter XII) contains a list of the
most important sources of information bearing upon
the subject, together with all of the authorities quoted.
While " Hiring the Worker " was written primarily
to assist superintendents, foremen, and employment
managers to solve their employment problems, it is
hoped that certain portions will prove helpful to vo-
cational counselors, school officers, parents, and social
workers who are concerned in any way with helping
others to choose their occupations or to plan their
careers.

EOY WlLLMAKTH KELLY.






CONTENTS



PAGBJ



INTRODUCTION. THE NEW PROFESSION OP HANDLING

MEN 1

Contributed by Meyer Bloomfield, formerly Director
of the Vocation Bureau of Boston.
Neglect of the human problem in management estab-
lishment of the Boston Employment Managers' Asso-
ciation aims of the Association abstract of the dis-
cussion at two meetings fundamental principles of
employment management.

CHAPTER I. THE DEVELOPMENT OF EMPLOYMENT DE-
PARTMENTS 17

Growth of the movement to establish better systems
of labor maintenance accounts of typical beginnings
history of the development of employment work in a
department store.

CHAPTER II. AN INVESTIGATION OF EMPLOYMENT PROB-
LEMS 25

Method and scope of the investigation location of
the firms studied text of the questionnaire chart
summarizing practices in thirty firms comparison of
methods used in firms with and without functionalized
departments for employment supervision.

CHAPTER III. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE

EMPLOYMENT MANAGER 33

Diversity of practice sources of labor supply follow-
up of employees at work promotions increase in
pay transfers hiring and discharge no longer func-
tions of the foremen education analysis of the turn-
over special duties outline of instructions to the em-
ployment department in a paper mill.



VI CONTENTS

PAGE

CHAPTER IV. SYSTEMS OF ORGANIZATION AND THE COST

OF MAINTENANCE 39

Quotations from replies to the questionnaire chart of
relationships in a factory- plan of organization in a
department store necessity for immediate contact
between the employment department and the chief ex-
ecutive sample expense accounts.

CHAPTER V. ANALYZING THE JOB >. 45

Personal elements retail selling methods in the
Bamberger Store, Newark, N. J. form letter for list-
ing understudies procedure followed by the Detroit
Steel Products Co. grading positions by analysis
sample job analyses in a factory summary of the ad-
vantages of written specifications.

CHAPTER VI. THE VITAL PROBLEM OF SELECTION 57

Unscientific systems of selection vocational guidance
analysis of application blanks minimum essentials on
application forms typical application blanks the
value of the interview to the employer and to the appli-
cant medical examinations reasons for rejection and
the number rejected medical examination blanks
advantages of medical and physical examinations
psychological tests proper use of such tests dangers
and points to be considered before attempting experi-
ments value of references advance notice of posi-
tions.

CHAPTER VII. INITIATING WORKERS INTO THEIR TASKS,

AND THE GENERAL EDUCATION OF EMPLOYEES 101

Educational demands of scientific management in-
adequate methods in use characteristic replies to the
questionnaire the General Electric Company's ap-
prentice schools subjects taught in corporation
schools instruction in English evening classes
methods used by the Fore River Ship Building Corpo-
ration continuation schools the Beverly Part-Time
Industrial School training department store employees
efficiency bulletin The New York Edison Company
training executives.

CHAPTER VIII TRANSFER, PROMOTION AND DISCHARGE . . 123
Plan of organizations based upon job analyses com-



CONTENTS vii

PAGE

plcte service records as an aid to transfer and promo-
tion efficiency rating control of discipline and dis-
charge reasons for transfer to another department
keeping in touch with employees promotion plans
opportunities for advancement causes for discharge.

CHAPTER IX. THE TRAINING AND QUALIFICATIONS OF

EMPLOYMENT MANAGERS 143

Qualifications and training considered desirable by men
engaged in the supervision of employment college and
university courses for employment managers previ-
ous experience and training of the managers inter-
viewed requirements for an employment manager as
formulated by a department store.

CHAPTER X. SPECIMEN BLANKS, RECORD FORMS, AND

INSTRUCTION BOOKLETS 151

Requisition for help notice to the pay-roll department
employee's pass registry card instruction booklets
health and safety bulletins order for increase in pay
recommendation for transfer or discharge volun-
tary leaving organization ledger semi-annual salary
changes summarized records of the employment de-
partment plotting the turnover methods of analyzing
the turnover formulated by the Boston Employment
Managers' Association.

CHAPTER XL RETAINING THE WORKER: A SUMMARY

VIEW OF LABOR TURNOVER 195

Typical conditions in a textile mill the changing con-
ception of good management inadequate records
cost and amount of the turnover as estimated by Mag-
nus W. Alexander report of John M. Williams for
Fayette R. Plumb, Inc. extent of the problem through-
put the country unemployment and labor fluctuations
in Philadelphia how unemployment affects the work-
ers classification of losses to employers co-operative
effort to discover the real causes and the best remedies
Mr. Fisher's suggestions for reducing labor turnover.

CHAPTER XII. SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY OF EMPLOY-
MENT MANAGEMENT AND RELATED TOPICS 217

By John M. Brewer and Roy Willmarth Kelly

A selected annotated list of the best books and articles

dealing with the subject.



INTRODUCTION
THE NEW PEOFESSION OF HANDLING MEN

BY MEYEK BLOOMFIELD
Formerly Director of the Vocation Bureau of Boston

ANEW movement and the recognition of a new
profession have developed within the past five
years. The movement is known as the Employment
Managers 7 Associations, which are to be found, either
full-grown or in process of starting, from Boston to
San Francisco. The new profession is that of Employ-
ment Manager or Supervisor of Personnel, and pro-
vision for such executive is to be found in a rapidly
increasing number of large as well as small industrial
and commercial establishments.

Both to employer and employee the significance and
right development of Employment Executives ' Organi-
zations, Employment Departments, and the proper
equipment and powers of employing executives, are of
far-reaching importance.

Whatever may have been the genius and humane
impulses of the men who have revolutionized modern
methods of management, either as progressive em-
ployers, managers, or system builders and experts, the
fact remains that what may be termed labor-manage-

1



2 HIRING THE WORKER

ment, the handling of the " human problem," has re-
ceived far less attention, skill, and insight than have
the material factors in organization.

Had a fraction of the imagination been bestowed on
problems of the working force, and on questions of
constructive relationships with employees, which has
been so successfully applied to material, methods, and
machinery, we should have been farther along than
we are today in the matter of enlightened labor-man-
agement and industrial relationship.

In the coming years now, in fact men more than
things must engage the most thoughtful interest of
employers. There can be no sound organization where
questions affecting the working force are relegated to
a subordinate or treated as a mere incident in business
enterprise. The truth, fortunately recognized by an
increasing number of important industrial leaders, is
that the man-problem in organization is the really
vital one. To slight it is to build on quicksands.

A little over five years ago, the Vocation Bureau of
Boston, an institution devoted to the promotion of vo-
cational opportunity, began to study in a large way
the question of the human factors in industrial or-
ganization. In order to obtain material for this
study, the Bureau examined first the aims of existing
trade and technical societies. Not one was found which
gave more than incidental and occasional considera-
tion to the subject of personnel organization. No
group of employers, or of minor executives, could be
found which dealt in a systematic way with the multi-
tude of problems arising from an interest in questions
affecting employees other than as economic units.

The men who do the hiring, and watch the ebb and
flow of the working force, the men who literally pump



INTKODUCTION 3

the life-blood into an establishment, ana are in a singu-
lar position to affect the complexion and quality of an
organization, had no association or common inter-
course whatever and were rarely members of any so-
ciety or association where they could exchange experi-
ences.

Obviously this was an undesirable situation. These
hiring agents were not, of course, at fault. They re-
flected the average employer's conception of his per-
sonnel problems and his responsibility concerning
them.

Now this condition and lack of insight expressed
itself in wastes which later investigation proved to be
as grave as they were preventable. At the very outset
of the Vocation Bureau's inquiries, while it was
examining methods of hiring and the experience of
employees during employment, an effort was made to
find out how many persons passed each year through
the office of the employment agent. Figures were
almost impossible to obtain, because either no records
were kept, or records were kept in a way which meant
nothing. Yet enough was discovered to reveal an enor-
mous leakage, a waste that was costly to the employer,
and obviously unfortunate for the under-employed men
and women who coursed in and out of the work places.

In pressing this inquiry further, an attempt was
made to find out what estimate, if any, had been made
of the cost of changing employees the actual money
cost not the cost in terms of discontent, poor organi-
zation, and unemployment. There were no figures to
be had, though in a few instances interesting approxi-
mations were ventured. Guesses ranged from fifty
cents to two hundred dollars. All this happened over
five years ago.



4 HIRING THE WORKER

The obvious thing to do in the face of the situation
then disclosed was to bring together those who were
closest to the processes of the waste just mentioned to
see what could be devised by way of remedy. There
was something more in view, however, than an asso-
ciation of those who would take concerted and sus-
tained interest in the question of a stable working
force, vital though this was. The whole problem of
building up a sound personnel body loomed up and pre-
sented so many novel phases that a specialized society
to deal with it seemed to be urgent. In addition, the
handling of employees, from the stage of hiring
throughout the course of employment, suggested, dimly
at first, to be sure, a new career for qualified and spe-
cially trained executives.

The more the subject of personnel management was
thought about, the larger and more important seemed
the field and its vista of industrial statesmanship. The
immediate task then was to make a start in a pioneer
direction.

Five years ago the Vocation Bureau invited fifty
men who were in charge of hiring and related work
in fifty of the largest establishments in Greater Boston
to meet for the purpose of organizing an association
of employment executives. The response was all that
could be desired. Although this was the first attempt
ever made to bring about a professional organization
in the employing field, no argument was needed to
persuade anybody as to its importance. Indeed, sev-
eral of the men present stated that they had for a long
time felt the need of meeting regularly with others who
were coping with problems such as they daily encoun-
tered. They wanted to know how others selected em-
ployees, how they got them, and how they kept them;



INTRODUCTION O

they wanted information as to best practices in carry-
ing on employment departments, supervising and
training personnel, and reducing the friction spots and
abuses in organization and management.

The following program was adopted :

To discuss problems of employees ; their training and
their efficiency.

To compare experiences which shall throw light on
the failures and successes in conducting the employ-
ment department.

To invite experts or other persons who have knowl-
edge of the best methods or experiments for ascertain-
ing the qualifications of employees, and providing for
their advancement.

It will be seen that the aim of this new association
was to provide a professional medium for the exchange
of experiences in a field where little interchange of
ideas had hitherto taken place; to study the human
problem in industry. In short, there was a conscious
effort to make industrial practice square with twen-
tieth-century enlightenment.

For more than two years the monthly meetings of
this association were given over to speakers on sub-
jects of general interest to the members. There was
not at that time much real discussion or interchange
of opinion and experiences. One day, a member rose
and said: "We have heard many good speakers from
the outside. They are all right, but they do not have
our problems and difficulties to face every day. We
want good speakers from time to time, but we can
tell one another more than anybody from the outside.
Let us be the speakers, and I am willing to begin by
telling you my own troubles in running our employ-
ment department, I have brought some figures to



O HIRING THE WORKER

show you what our labor turn-over is and ask you how
to improve it."

The ice was broken. From that day, three years
ago, to the present the meetings of the Boston Em-
ployment Managers' Association have been largely
given over to papers prepared by the members, deal-
ing with their own difficulties and successes, and the
discussions, which always actively follow, have brought
out a wealth of information. The members were be-
coming experts in their field. As men reflecting real
daily problems they met and helped one another and
developed a progressive point of view.

A good idea of the nature of the addresses by the
members will be gained from a brief abstract of some
discussions :

ABSTRACT OF DISCUSSION AT TWO MEETINGS

I

TESTS



Our method (said the employment man of a street-railway
company) in the selection of motormen has been, briefly, per-
sonal interview. That is as far as we go in grading the
mental traits of men. We are with him five or ten minutes,
find out where he works, his age, his education, the different
places he has been employed since he left school, what he
did, why he left. He is tested in eyesight color as well
as view also in weight. He fills out an application blank.
The different parties he worked for are referred to. Social
references are looked up. And these are compared with his
personal statement. By this method you can get an idea as
to his standing. If he is accepted, he is placed in charge
of an experienced motorman. That man does the testing.

He takes him over the various lines and his tests are prac-
tical ones. He is shown how the work is done. He is shown
the mechanism of the car and gradually worked up to the



INTRODUCTION 7

/

full responsibility of handling the car. At first he will take
the handles for a short time, where there is little to contend
with where there are no obstructions. Later, he is given
the handles for the entire trip. The instructing motorman
is right beside him. He will meet all the obstructions and
trials that confront a motorman in his daily work. These
are the real valuable tests.

When it comes to the last day or two, the motorman actu-
ally leaves the front platform altogether, and the man feels
he is actually responsible. Then he is down on his own re-
sources. While there is somebody beside him to help him,
you have no real test, because he feels that the responsibility
rests with somebody else.

The real test would be to have a track a short line
especially constructed at a nominal expense and have certain
obstructions all ready to drop down in front of the man as
he goes along. That is a real test ; in my opinion a real test.
A motorman is going along when suddenly he gets three bells.
The conductor may do that to test the motorman, to see how
quickly he can stop his car and how he does it.

II

DISCHARGE



We may be peculiar in the amount of stability of our or-
ganization. Our foremen are as nearly experts as in any in-
dustry with which I have come in contact. The average time
it takes to reach such a position as that of foreman is from
ten to fifteen years. In that period he has instilled in him
more or less of the disposition of the management in regard
to discharge.

Where foremen come and go quickly this function might
be dangerous to place in their hands without any strain. A
few figures will show how it works out with us :

In the year 1915 we had 669 cases of absolute discharge
during the year. Upwards of 16000 people are employed;
the percentage is not large. Of these 669, 424 have been in
the service under three months; 105 more than three and
under six months. A total of 529 of the 669 had been em-
ployed less than six months: a total of 140 had been em-
ployed over two years, less than 1 per cent.

As the term of service increases the number of those dis-



8 HIRING THE WORKER

charged decreases. Only 23 who have been in the service
from three to five years and only 17 over five years have been
discharged, which illustrates the stability of our organiza-
tion.

The discharge of a man does not necessarily mean that he
leaves the employ of the company. Where there are a num-
ber of rooms practically the same in character 25 or 27 a
man discharged by one overseer might be taken into another
department where he will give entirely satisfactory services.

When the employment department was first organized it
was thought unwise to take away from our foremen the right
of discharge. It was thought that a check should be placed
on the foremen's action and they were accordingly instructed
not to discharge or terminate the services of anyone without
notifying the employment department. The employment de-
partment interviews every employee who leaves, either vol-
untarily or discharged for cause.

They feel that sometimes the foremen are hasty and em-
ployees are discharged when other means can be used to dis-
cipline them and thus save an experienced hand for the com-
pany. The employment department was responsible for sav-
ing eighty experienced people for the company by transfer-
ring them to other departments.

The transferring of the control of discharge from the fore-
man to the employment department has been very success-
ful. Next year I think the department heads will be in-
structed to dismiss no one except by the consent of the works
manager ; he will delegate this'to the employment department.



The example of the Boston association has been
followed in a number of large cities throughout the
country. There are flourishing societies in New York,
Philadelphia, Detroit, Chicago, and elsewhere, while
in a score of important industrial centers employment
executives are getting together for a similar purpose.

The present indications are that a country-wide ex-
tension of such organizations will take place, because
the idea underlying them appears to be fundamental,
and in accord with the aims of both industry and
social service.



INTRODUCTION 9

If such extension, then, of employment executives'
associations should take place, the time is opportune
to consider their purposes, and their possible con-
tribution to good management and right industrial
relations. Bearing in mind the fact that the original
effort for this type of association came from an insti-
tution, the Vocation Bureau, whose chief aim is the
promotion of vocational opportunity, the trend in such
associations should be along the line of enlightened
thinking in modern industrial organization. If their
growth remains true to the initial aims, such associa-
tions are in a position to help unravel the tangled prob-
lems of misemployment, under-employment and unem-
ployment, and the waste of human capacity in general.

When everything that present-day science can sug-
gest in the way of improving technical efficiency in
systems of cost-keeping, equipment, machinery, and
material has been adopted, the biggest of all industrial
problems still remains to be faced.

As we have seen, this is the problem of handling
men. Every awakened employer knows that managing
employees, selecting, assigning, directing, supervising
and developing them, is the one phase of management
which is most difficult and complicated. Employers
have not been unaware of the size of this task. Ex-
periment after experiment has been tried with varying
results, all of them aiming at the goal of welding the
working force into a stable, dependable, and well-
assimilated organization. And yet such organization
is not common.

Employers, of course, appreciate more or less clearly
what all this means. But few, until now, have set
themselves to work on this problem as they should.
Some have with unhappy results expected miracle-



10 HIRING THE WORKER

workers to solve their human problem, or have toyed
with strange employment schemes ; while others have
relied unwittingly on sleight-of-hand performances in
personnel-building instead of dealing with this big
problem in the way they deal with other knotty prob-
lems. If to psychology they must turn, a psychologist
and educator like Prof. E. L. Thorndike of Columbia,
for example, could have shown them that the applica-
tion of science to the problem of handling men in-
volved long and painstaking, not to say exceedingly
laborious, investigation. There is no easy road to
solving the man-problem in industry. But there are
ways, intelligent, common-sense and practical ways, of
setting to work. There are certain principles to be
observed, methods to be adopted, and standards to be
maintained in dealing with the question of personnel,
and only through adhering to these will a reasonable
degree of success come. At any rate the waste and
friction now involved in the average treatment of the
personnel problem can be materially reduced.

In the first place, the fact must be firmly grasped
that handling employees is a serious business. To the
employment department we must finally look for a
solution; to its powers, duties, functions, and place in
the scheme of organization. And above everything
else we must look to the character, training, equipment,
and function of the man who handles the personnel.

So at this point thought can be most profitably be-
stowed. A new conception is needed of the functions
of the employment department, and the qualifications
of the employment superintendent. Not every concern
has a special employment department, although the
large establishments are giving up the system of hir-
ing by department heads, and concentrating the selec-



INTKODUCTION 11

tion of employees into a separate division. More and
more the need is recognized of functionalizing the
hiring and handling of men. Without such specialized
treatment of this problem it is impossible to give the
matter the attention which it requires. Moreover, the
power to hire and discharge extended to a number of
individuals has given rise to abuses and frictions which
have cost the employer dearly. Nothing is more fatal
to sound organization than such power without ade-
quate supervision and check. Petty executives should
never be entrusted with this vital function. Right
relations cannot be secured by such a method. Hiring
men and discharging men are serious , affairs. Costly
experience has settled this proposition.

The quality of the working force determines in the
final analysis the quality of the organization, of its
product, of its success. Nowhere is this fact more evi-
dent than in the organizations which sell service; for
example, department stores and public service corpora-
tions. The point of contact between the business and
the customers and the channel of communication are
always through the individual employee. The busi-
ness is summed up as to its standards by this outpost
in the person of saleswoman, telephone operator, or
car conductor. Good-will is made or unmade accord-
ing to the type of representative. The larger the or-
ganization, the more the units of contact. Business
may be essentially impersonal, but it is highly per-
sonal in its service features. The teamster, driver,
stenographer, floor manager, claim adjuster, and
scores of others act in a personal sense and with indi-
vidual customers.

Who selects these people! On what basis are they
selected? Is it all guess-work? The business man



12 HIKING THE WOKKER

who has not already asked himself questions such as
these will do so before long. The whole drift of the
time is in the direction of greater attention to the
proper selection, supervision, and development of the
individual worker. Such attention is no longer a by-
product of other responsibilities. It is no longer an
inferior man's job.

The employment function is so important to good
organization as well as right relations that the hiring
office will be looked upon, as it now frequently is, as
one of the vital departments of a business. Some-
where in the scheme of organization provision must be
made for a well-equipped office to deal with the many
problems concerning personnel. Only through such
specialization can the solution be approached. In the
first place, such office or department alone can deal
with the task of scientifically organizing the source of
supply of help. To depend on applicants at the gate,
to hang out a want shingle, or to advertise through
want columns or the medium of other employees, is
too haphazard a method. Eaw material is not pro-
cured in this way. Scientific purchasing requires a
study of markets, testing out of material, and figuring
of conditions. There is here no higgling and blind
bargaining. The laboratory is frequently used to
render the final verdict in favor of or against a certain
purchase.

Why has the hiring of men been permitted to go on
with less systematic scrutiny? One reason has been
the surplus, the labor reserve. This will no longer
avail, first, because industrial conditions and legisla-
tion are working to dimmish, if not wipe out, the excess
of applicants for work on the fringe of every industry ;
and second, because wise business management recog-



INTRODUCTION 13

nizes the good sense of organizing the source of labor
supply in connection with an organized labor market.

Source-organization assumes various forms. In the
case of prospective executives, some large establish-
ments employ "scouts" (not unlike those of major
baseball leagues, who range the minor circuits for
promising players), who visit periodically the colleges
and other institutions and discover the men of promise.
One of the leading manufacturing companies of the
country is noted for its post-graduate business op-
portunities. Indeed, it has built its entire executive
force practically out of the findings of its scouts. An-
other establishment recruits its rank and file from a
careful canvass, a block-by-block and a house-to-house
visitation of neighborhoods. One of the leading de-
partment stores in the East has made special arrange-
ment with the high schools of its city and suburbs to
send during Saturdays and vacation periods boys and
girls for try-out work. They are fairly well paid dur-
ing the probationary period. When they have finished
their school work, positions are awaiting them, based
on the observations and the records of the employ-
ment department which is charged with this duty.

A study of the source of supply, then, is one of the
first interests of a properly organized employment
office. Ample powers are given such offices to reach
out and tap the best reservoirs. There is no reliance
placed on securing a competitor's help. The aim of
such offices is to develop their own material from the
raw. Permanence of work is secured by the fact that
fitness for the work required is carefully ascertained
in advance. Discharge is not in the hands of a variety
of sub-bosses. Whim and prejudice are eliminated.
The employment office aims to secure employees who



14 HIRING THE WORKER

will find it worth while to stay, and who know that
higher positions will be filled by promotions.

As one studies the application cards of various con-
cerns one reason for maladjustment becomes clear.
So little analysis of the work required has been under-
taken that we have practically no specifications, no
blueprints of job-requirements in order to enable an
applicant to measure himself against the actual de-
mands. Hit-or-miss is the prevailing method. The
hiring office properly managed knows that a well-de-
vised application and record blank is one of its first
tasks.

Some time ago the application blanks of fifty cor-
porations were collected. If one cut off the firm names,
there would be difficulty in identifying from the ma-
terial the nature of the business it pertained to. The
blanks showed little understanding of the specific re-
quirements of the various occupations. There was
little differentiation in the questions asked. Employees
cannot be properly selected or adjusted on such a basis.
Each establishment must work out its own needs and
demands and record them in the hiring blank.

In brief, to one who observes the current practice
of hiring, handling and discharging employees, the con-
clusion comes home with peculiar force that in no other
phase of management are there so much unintelligence,
recklessness of cost, and lack of imagination. On the
other hand, in the right organization of the employ-
ment scheme there would seem to be endless possibili-
ties of genuine service, a service not possible even in
the most benevolent of welfare projects.

The situation on the whole suggests the need of
recognizing a new profession in the organization of
industry the profession of hiring and developing men.



INTRODUCTION 15

Executives will have to be trained for this work as
they are trained for other important responsibilities.
The employment manager, the executive within whose
duties falls the direction of the personnel, must be
prepared for this work as for a genuine profession.
The handling of men in this century will call for un-
usual preparation in the way of understanding and a
spirit of justice.

To seek a professional basis for the work of han-
dling men, and a definite training course of prepara-
tion, is not a novel suggestion when one considers how
many other functions in business have been brought
under such direction. All schools of business train-
ing, engineering schools, indeed professional schools
in general, have had to do pioneer work in applying
science and organized experience to familiar pursuits
such as accounting, salesmanship, banking, railroad
practice, and management. The Tuck School at Dart-
mouth College, and the Wharton School at the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, to name two examples of for-
ward-looking institutions of business training, have
been simply true to the original motive of their crea-
tion when they undertook to organize employment
courses as subjects for instruction.

Though a long period of time may be needed before
such courses contain standard material, they are in a
good position now to gather the best available mate-
rial, analyze the best practice, and systematize the
thinking and research into the problem. Meantime
the management world is laid under obligation to these
institutions for their pioneering foresight and their
placing themselves in a position to make contributions
to what many now regard as the most important phase
of management.



16 HIRING THE WORKER

So in the growth of employment-management socie-
ties and in the growing connection between them and
management training courses, both employer and em-
ployee will find valuable assistance in overcoming
waste, while in the development of the new profession
of handling men and all that this idea implies in the
way of new relationships between management and
men, there are unique opportunities ahead for co-op-
eration between the forces that make industry possible.



CHAPTER I

THE AIMS AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF
EMPLOYMENT DEPAETMENTS

IT is characteristic of our scientific age with its
remarkable progress along mechanical lines, that
far more attention has been given to improving meth-
ods which are related to machinery, processes, sys-
tems of accounting, and means of transportation, than
to the problems of personality which center about the
employee. While the leaders of the "scientific man-
agement " movement undoubtedly had in mind the
necessity for a careful selection of workers and the
consideration of the welfare of every individual in the
organization, their time during the early progress of
the movement was so fully occupied with other mat-
ters that these phases were as a rule entirely over-
looked, or at least sadly neglected, in the shops where
their ideas have been introduced. In the nature of the
case, such a condition could not long prevail. It very
early became evident that exact methods could not be
carried out successfully in a factory where the per-
sonnel was chosen at haphazard or was constantly
changing. An organization which formulates for itself
certain well-defined aims and looks forward to a con-
tinuous growth in the perfection of these aims, is
forced to make careful choice of its agents and to insist

17



18 HIKING THE WORKER

upon their retention in service in order to secure con-
tinuity of output and policy.

The statement of the lack of a proper solution for
the problem of handling employees does not imply that
executives have not fully realized its difficulties. Hun-
dreds of costly experiments have been tried in order
to assure the laborer of just treatment and fair wages,
to secure a dependable and stable working force, and
to diminish the tremendous waste due to the constant
flow of workers from one firm to another.

Only within the past half dozen years has any gen-
erally adopted plan for treating the problem appeared.
During 1912 the first organization in the United States
for the purpose of discussing the questions related to
employment was formed in Boston on the invitation of
the Vocation Bureau. At that time only a few of the
firms represented had separate departments for hir-
ing, training, and promoting the welfare of their em-
ployees. A decade ago a few firms scattered over the
country had such departments, but the number was
small indeed. A striking change has taken place within
the past few years. Several other organizations pat-
terned after the Employment Managers' Association
of Boston have been started in other cities throughout
the United States, and the number of firms employing
executives of this sort has increased with great
rapidity.

It was in the hope of furnishing more complete data
on the actual methods in use that the present investi-
gation was undertaken. While an extensive statistical
study of the results accomplished by newer methods,
in comparison with those widely employed a few years
ago (and still extensively practiced), would no doubt
have proved very helpful, it was felt that at the pres-



THE HANDLING OF MEN 19

ent time a greater service could be rendered by more
general statements as to practices and policies and by
broader generalizations as to accomplishments.

The literature of the subject is still very meagre.
Scarcely a half-dozen accounts of employment depart-
ments are in print, and employment executives every-
where feel that their work is still largely experimental.
Concerns that have inaugurated separate departments
are anxious to exchange experiences with other similar
departments, and executives who are contemplating
changes want to know more about the general prac-
tices in vogue. Furthermore, the diversity of practice
in collecting statistics and the complete lack of data
in many instances would make it very difficult to for-
mulate authoritative statements. Standards must still
be decided upon for the compilation of vital facts. It
is useless, for example, to say very much about the
cost of the turnover when no two executives agree as
to the method of computing the exact amount of the
turnover itself.

With these considerations in mind, an investigation
was undertaken by the writer during the Spring and
Summer of 1916, which was carried on by the usual
questionnaire method supplemented by personal visits.
Thirty-one replies to the questionnaire were received
from employment managers, superintendents, and
others and visits were made to thirty-four different
concerns. Fairly complete data were secured in this
way concerning the employment methods in use in
thirty firms, representing a total of about 55850 em-
ployees. The greater part of the discussion which fol-
lows is drawn from the returns from eighteen of these
firms that had established separate employment de-
partments.



20 HIRING THE WORKER

The importance which has lately attached to this
question is well illustrated by the fact that several of
the firms which replied to the questionnaire (see page
27 et seq.) have recently established departments only
after careful investigation of what was being done by
other companies. One firm sent several members of
its staff on an investigation which took them into a
number of States and during the progress of which
they visited and reported upon fifteen different em-
ployment departments. Copies of a summary of the
methods found in use in these departments were sub-
mitted to some two hundred of the firm's most trusted
employees with requests for criticisms and suggestions.
On the basis of the returns, plans were drawn up for a
complete reorganization of the employment depart-
ment and these plans are now being put into effect.

Only a few of the firms reporting have had their
employment departments in operation for more than
five or six years. One of the most complete depart-
ments has been carrying on its work for about sixteen
years, although many of its best features are of more
recent origin. Two other excellent departments were
organized in 1908. Several commenced work in 1914
or 1915.

Various reasons are given for the establishment
of a separate department. One began with the mere
keeping of employees' records so that some satisfac-
tory data might be available concerning each employee.
Another states that the management realized that its
policies with respect to the treatment of employees
were not being adhered to by its executives, and these
duties were later given over to the employment man-
ager.

In other statements the following: aims are to be



THE HANDLING OF MEN 21

found: To fill the need for a centralized department
for employing workers and maintaining employees'
well being; to reduce labor turnover; to get the best
possible help; to overcome unsatisfactory conditions
resulting from a division of responsibility among three
superintendents.

The following is one of the most complete state-
ments :



The necessity of not only proper selection, but follow-up
by someone directly responsible and specially trained, was
early recognized, and the work was done by the manager
himself until the Service and Welfare Department was de-
veloped to handle employment as a basic part of its func-
tion. The immediate interests of anyone responsible to any
degree for operating are bound to be in constant conflict
with the ultimate objects and policies of the employment de-
partment. From time to time questions arise between em-
ployees and heads of operating departments and no one who
is a party to these questions is in a position fairly to decide
and solve them. The solution of such questions is a func-
tion of the employment department and they would be im-
possible of fair and satisfactory solution if the function of
employment were administered by one who might be an in-
terested party. Where, moreover, enough people are em-
ployed to make employment a real problem, it is a problem
as important as operating itself, and requiring as much, if
not more, ability ; and there is no reason why it should not
be administered by one who is just as capable and has as
much ability in his line as a head of an operating department.



Another employment manager writes :

The growing need for the specialization of employment
methods and the hiring of help, together with the realization
that the foreman's and superintendent's time should be de-
voted more exclusively to production, caused the management
to decide to organize an employment department. The
writer was engaged as manager of this department in Au-
gust, 1913.



22 HIKING THE WORKER

The first step taken was the installation of various forms
for requisitioning help, application cards, leaving forms
showing the man's ability and reasons for leaving. The es-
tablishment of a new department is usually looked upon with
suspicion by foremen in any industry, and so it was with our
department. There were many misunderstandings, such as
overlapping of authority, which had to be straightened out
and explained.

The next step was the formation of more up-to-date appli-
cation forms and the keeping of the individual efficiency rec-
ord, also daily record of all men hired and fired, from which
we work out our labor turnover. We are now working on
a form which will give us the turnover by departments, to-
gether with statistics showing the average age of employees,
number of married and single men, and number of different
nationalities employed.

The Director of the Boston Employment Office of
the Employers' Association of Massachusetts repre-
sents a number of concerns who look to him to supply
a considerable proportion of their help. He says in
regard to the inauguration of this service:

The members of our Association realized that the matter
of securing help was a problem which required the attention
of some one person in their organization who would always
have the necessary time to interview a large number of ap-
plicants when they were compelled to advertise. They de-
cided to install and operate an employment department where
they could secure their help, and where it would not be nec-
essary for the man seeking a position to pay any part of his
wages for securing such a position. We do not subject an
applicant to any unnecessary questions, but we do maintain
that the several members of our Association shall have the
right of saying whom they shall employ and under what con-
ditions.

This office keeps a file of applicants and receives
from the members of the Association written specifica-
tions of the sort of help desired and the kind of work
to be performed.



THE HANDLING OF MEN 23

A large department store gives this interesting his-
tory of the development of its employment work :



In the original Filene store on Washington Street all em-
ployment work was done directly by a member of the firm,
who had, of course, many other responsibilities including
those of the present position of store manager. His secre-
tary assisted in the employment work in connection with
other secretarial duties.

When the large Washington Street store was taken the em-
ployment work was carried on still by a member of the firm.
An assistant, however, was appointed to devote all. her time
to employment, education, welfare, arid some executive work.
A year later a clerk was engaged, working directly under the
supervision of the member of the firm and the assistant men-
tioned above. His duties were to engage all the minor help,
to obtain references for all employees and to assist in other
employment work. He devoted all of his time to employ-
ment duties but had no executive functions.

At the opening of the new store a superintendent had been
appointed, and gradually he took over all executive work
connected with the handling of employees, such as discharge,
etc., taking all those functions entirely away from the so-
called employees' or employment office.

This organization continued until the second store on
Washington Street was opened. Then the president of the
corporation gave up employment work altogether. Four new
members were added to the firm, one of whom was called
store manager, assuming all of the former duties of the presi-
dent. The president's assistant from now on devoted all her
time to welfare and educational work and a new position was
created that of employment manager. The incumbent was
responsible for filling all positions and had executive control
to the extent of making transfers, promotions, etc. He did
not have power to discharge, or any other executive func-
tions, these remaining in control of a line organization. The
employment clerk was continued and his responsibilities con-
sisted still in engaging all minor help.

The employment manager was next given more executive
authority and was made superintendent of employees. He
had charge of the employment work for all divisions of the
store, but his duties as superintendent of employees were
confined almost entirely to the store manager's department.



24



HIRING THE WORKER



This arrangement led to a great deal of confusion, as there
was no clear line of distinction between the duties of the
various positions and departments. Consequently in this store
the present organization was created. The employment de-
partment now has nearly complete control of hiring, dis-
charge, transfer, pay (method and amount), working con-
ditions, and judging the efficiency of individuals, and it co-
operates in the work of education.



CHAPTER II

AN INVESTIGATION OF EMPLOYMENT
PEOBLEMS

THE list of questions which were made the basis
of the inquiry referred to in Chapter I, page 20,
is to be found on page 27. In order to insure that the
questionnaire would receive proper consideration,
personal visits were made in practically every case to
those who were requested to fill it out. These visits
served the further purpose of giving a concrete basis
for the interpretation of the answers. In many in-
stances, several hours were spent with the employ-
ment manager or superintendent in inspecting the
factory and talking over his methods. Valuable in-
formation was gathered in this way which served to
supplement deficient returns or to interpret brief or
ambiguous answers.

During the progress of the investigation, visits were
made to thirty-four different concerns, and also to the
central employment office of the Employers' Associa-
tion of Massachusetts. In addition to the question-
naires distributed to these firms, eight were sent out
by mail with explanatory letters, and four were handed
to employment managers at meetings of the Boston
Employment Managers ' Association with a personal
request for information. From the forty-six ques-

25



26 HIKING THE WORKER

tionnaires thus sent out, thirty-one replies were re-
ceived, thirty of which have been tabulated on the
chart inserted facing page 32. Twenty-seven of the
firms whose returns appear on the chart were visited
by the writer in person, and the other three sent in
very full descriptions of their employment depart-
ments.

More or less complete information was secured from
seven other concerns, but this information has not been
tabulated. In some cases these firms were visited in
order to look up some special feature of their em-
ployment work, such as education of employees, and
in others the peculiar methods in use made it imprac-
ticable to compare their work with the other depart-
ments listed.

The thirty firms on the chart employed on the aver-
age 55 850 persons, while the seven additional firms
referred to employed approximately 10 500 more. The
inquiry is thus representative of thirty-seven firms
employing about 66 000 employees. One questionnaire,
dealing largely with the general functions of employ-
ment management, was received from the employment
office of the Employment Managers' Association of
Massachusetts, but the reply is not considered in the
above figures, although the opinions stated have been
given weight in other parts of this discussion.

In location, the firms listed on the chart are distrib-
uted among thirteen cities, all but two being in New
England and nearly half in Boston, as shown by the
table following:

Boston, Mass 14 Watertown, Mass 1

Cambridge, Mass 4 West Lynn, Mass 1

Beverly, Mass 1 Worcester, Mass 2



AN INVESTIGATION OF EMPLOYMENT PROBLEMS 27

East Walpole, Mass. . . 1 Cleveland, Ohio

Framingham, Mass ... 1 Philadelphia, Pa 1

Greenfield, Mass 1 South Manchester,

Wakefield, Mass 1 Conn 1

Of the seven other firms visited for the immediate
purposes of this study, six were located in Boston and
one in Cambridge. The work of numerous other de-
partments is referred to in various places, but the
names of the departments listed on the chart are with-
held by special request of a number of those who were
interviewed.

The complete text of the questionnaire follows :



Name of Firm . . .

Address

Business

No. of Employees



INQUIRY BY THE VOCATION BUREAU OF BOSTON

INTO THE

PROBLEMS CONNECTED WITH THE WORK OF EMPLOYMENT
MANAGERS AND EMPLOYMENT DEPARTMENTS

(Data treated in strict confidence. Conclusions of this report
will be available to all employment executives who co-operate.)

I. THE EMPLOYMENT DEPARTMENT

1. Is there a special employment department?

2. Who has charge of this department?

3. How was this department developed?

(Brief history of its development.)

4. What is the total annual expense of carrying it

on?

5. State the items of the above expense.

6. What changes are contemplated in developing

this department?



28 HIEING THE WORKER

II. THE EMPLOYMENT MANAGER

1. Who does the actual hiring?

2. How long has this official been in this work ?

3. What previous positions has he held ?

4. What duties and responsibilities does he have?

5. What are his relations to :

(a) Owners

(b) Superintendents

(c) Foremen

(d) Department Heads

(e) Any other important executive officers

6. What assistants are provided? their duties?

7. What training, experience, and personal qualities

should an employment manager possess ?

III. THE WORKING FORCE

1. What methods are you using for securing em-

ployees ?

2. Supply whatever data you can as to the relative

merits and defects of each method.

3. What is the relative cost of each method?

4. What questions do applicants answer other than

those on your application blank?

5. How do you ascertain whether an applicant has

specified knowledge as to the job applied for?

6. Upon what basis is assignment to a task made ?

7. What follow-up system is there by which the em-

ployment department keeps in touch with em-
ployees and their tasks?

8. What would be the ideal follow-up method from

the employment manager's viewpoint?

IV. PROMOTION

1. How are the new employees initiated into their

tasks and by whom?

2. What, if any, promotion scheme have you?

3. Are the opportunities for advancement made

known ? How ?

4. Are the tasks analyzed and recorded?

5. What methods are used to determine and rate

the efficiency of employees?

6. What is made the basis for promotion ?

7. What are the estimated chances for advancement

in each department?



AN INVESTIGATION OF EMPLOYMENT PROBLEMS 29

(a) How rapid the rate of promotion?

8. What provision is there for transfer and try-out

of employees to other work in the establish-
ment?

9. How are the various grades of executive and su-

pervisory positions filled ?



V. DISCHARGE

1. What are the various causes for discharge from

different positions and from different depart-
ments ?

2. Enumerate the officials who may discharge ?

3. What investigation, if any, is made as to causes

of discharge?

(a) As to voluntary leaving?

4. What are the employment manager's functions

in relation to discharge?

5. What control, in your opinion, of discipline and

discharge by the employment manager is ad-
visable ?

6. What experiments, if any, have been tried to

lessen :

(a) discharge?

(b) voluntary leaving?

(c) lay-offs?



VI. TURNOVER

1. What is the estimated cost of changing em-

ployees ?

(Estimate by departments if convenient
and state the items in the expense.)

2. How is the permanency of employment in your

establishment promoted ?

3. What has been the effect on the turnover

through :

(a) Investigation of discharge and leaving?

(b) Organization of an employment depart-

ment?

(c) Industrial and social service?

(d) Bonus system?

(e) Premiums?

(f) Pensions?



30 HIEING THE WORKER

VII. CONSTRUCTIVE SUGGESTIONS

(a) What policies would you suggest for a model

employment department?

(b) What should be the duties and powers of an

employment manager in such organization?
NOTE : Collect specimens of all printed material in use.



For the sake of comparison, the thirty firms have
been placed in two groups. Group No. I (No. 1 to 12
inclusive) contains twelve concerns without separate
departments for the control of employment problems,
while Group No. II (No. 13 to 30 inclusive) lists eigh-
teen concerns that have adopted this plan of carrying
on their work.

In column 1 of the chart the numbers of the replies
to the questionnaire are given and the several firms
will be referred to by these numbers. The number of
employees given in column 2 is the average number
employed by the concern. In a few cases, such as con-
fectioners, where the variation in the number em-
ployed was very large, the figure given is the average
for the busy season, since this number more adequately
represents the size of the firm's employment problem.

The heading "Official Who Hires" (column 4) indi-
cates that the officer named has actual charge of em-
ploying help. Where superintendents or employment
managers delegate this work in any considerable ex-
tent to others, it is indicated by the titles of those
who do the real work of hiring.

Columns 6, 7, 8, and 9, "Method of Securing Em-
ployees," give in brief form the more important
means used to get in touch with prospective employees.
The terms "first source," "second source," etc., serve
to show the relative numbers secured by the firm
through the channel named at the head of the column.



AN INVESTIGATION OF EMPLOYMENT PROBLEMS 31

Only a few concerns gave any' estimate of the cost
of the turnover, and those who did stated that the
amount varied greatly in different departments and
under different circumstances.

The percentages given in the "Summary of Col-
umns " are based upon the number in. each group,
twelve for Group I and eighteen for Group II. A com-
parison of the figures for the two groups shows at
once a number of startling differences between the
methods in use under the two kinds of management.
Only four managers in Group II used no application
form to be filled out by prospective employees, and
two of these kept a record which took the place of the
usual blank. Among the firms in Group I, application
blanks were the exception rather than the rule. A
similar contrast is to be found in column 13. Seven
employment managers were using some form of phys-
ical examination as an aid to selection, but not one of
the twelve firms in Group I asked for such an exam-
ination.

Differences of even greater consequence are brought
to light in columns 11, 12, 14, 17, 18, 21, and 22. Seven
firms in Group I (58.3 per cent), as opposed to seven-
teen in Group II (94.5 per cent), claimed that every
promising applicant was given an adequate personal
interview with some authority above the foreman or
department head. Only 8.3 per cent of the firms in
Group I followed up references in the majority of
cases, while this policy was practiced by two-thirds of
the concerns in Group II. Nine firms in Group I (75
per cent) depended largely upon trial at work to deter-
mine the individual's fitness. While it must be taken
for granted that this is to be the final test in every case,
it ought not to be the first and only test. The small



32 HIKING THE WORKER

number in Group II who emphasized this as an impor-
tant means of judging fitness accompanied it with
other grounds for judgment. Only two superintend-
ents in Group I made a point of informing their em-
ployees of the opportunities for advancement, and
two were definitely opposed to the policy. On the
other hand, nearly three-fourths of the employment
managers in Group II had made careful provision for
instructing each employee concerning the chances for
advancement in his department.

Only one firm in Group I had attempted any form of
job analysis, while this important matter had been at
least begun by 77.7 per cent of the firms in Group II.
One of the most striking differences is exhibited by
columns 21 and 22. The investigation of cases of dis-
charge and the reasons for voluntary leaving is one of
the comparatively simple yet highly important means
of discovering cures for a large turnover. The rela-
tively slight importance attached to this question by
the firms in Group I is shown by the large number who
fail to make any investigation whatever either of dis-
charge or of voluntary leaving.

This summary shows conclusively that without a
highly organized employment department there is lit-
tle probability that a firm can successfully develop the
sources for new employees, properly select from the
applicants offered, or effectively promote and educate
its working force.



1


2>


\ 18


19


20


21


22


23






MOTIONS










No

of

fcpltl


Number
0*

Employees


^HS

Bu Cities


Are the
TasKs
Anolued

A IJ *- gj . -j


"or Transfer^.
Try -out mother
Departments


Officials who have
Power to Discharge


Are Coses'
of Discharge
Investigated


Is Voluntary
Leaving
nvestigated


Estimated
Cost of
Turn-over




















/


'600


ste


No


Hot done
SuStematKa/k,


Foremen


Rarely


No




?


MP


BdiP.'fely


No


Ho .

Qysdaadu


Foremen


No


No




3


800


Be?


Ho


PracficfcJ.no
Definite Plan


Foremen -Approval of

Sup?


No


Rarely




4


/300


Con/!


No


%*,%%*


Foremen and Super-
intenctents


Not
Occasional/^


Always


t25-40


5


5(70


PS


Yes


WM^


Foremen only recommend
to Supf.


Yes


Yes




6


000


Capp. not


No


Not
Practiced


Superintendents


No


No




7


2?5


700


No


Hot
Practiced


Foremen rfith Approval
of Sup'f


No


Usually




<5


225


Sop


Ho


Provided
for


Worhs Manager or
or Foreman


No


Ho




9


115


gs


Ho


Practiced
fffgf/far/u


Superintendent Confirms


Usually 6y
Sup?


Always




/O


300


5A//P


No


Provided


Foremen


No


No




//


/200


^


No


For


Sudt { Recommendation of
r \ Foremen


Yes


No




12


/000


3S


No


Arf/wfcfy rtvr*d


foremen A. Suet, rfccmmm
to Cen'l. Supf.


Yes


No






















!3


4600


4


Yes


yer & e


Foremen Subject to appeal
to Sup't or mp. Dept


On Jy in Cos*
of Appeal


Yes




14


3(700


A/A 5


Yes


13jju


Executives from their
Departments


Yes


Not Alloys




15


2300


5


Yes


Kf/ti


Foremen nith approval
of Employment Hna'r.


Yes


Yes


fso


16


2500


Definitely


Yes


Practiced
Regularly


Head of Personnel
Commiftee


Yes


Yes


$25 Up


n


750


Mfff.S


Yes


sjej&z


bp/royol orSvpf


Yes


Yes


$0-100


15


1200


Pap


Yes




Supts.and Foremen send
ft, Emp/oumtnt Dept.


Yes


Yes




id


1000


Co/otnMy


Yes


Provided
for


Foremen and Dept. Heads,
fyprorolofSupenntendent


Yes


Yes




?o


12,00


s


Yes


8fsf Men


foremen i Approval or Erne.
Mar. St. ten 1. Mar.


Yes


Usually




IL


too


SA//ts


rbrtially


Tccas'ionalli,


Employment Manager


Yes


Yes




g


1000


r(7/?A?


Coses


Slock T.mes


Supfs. &, Foremen


Yes


Al'^S




23


/300


g


Ocntm'lHoy


Provided
A For


Sup'fs <5c Foremen


Yes


Yes




24


3400


5fa*^


KZ


Provided
For


Foremen or Hospital rec-
ommend ro Emp Dept


Yes


Usually




25


550


r/7^p


No


Provided
for


Nomina/lu 5uct L~mp.
Mnqr. in Practict


Yes


Yes




?


eoo


^r y


No


Provided
For


Foremen or Sup't Cms:.'lt
mp. Mnar.


Yes


Yes


$30 50


?7


425


^fo


No


Not
Practiced


Foremen


Yes


Only
Occosiov/ly




?5


4300


tJ'APfQ


No


<tequ/ar/u


Foremen


Yes


Yes




29


6500


^*5


fbrfialty


Provided
For


Foremen Record irr
fmpleament Office


Ho


No


95C 100


JO


12000


B


Yes


Prodded


Foremen tv/fh approval
of Management


Usually


No






CROUP 1 GROUP (t
No. 'lo No. '.
Total NVployeesofthe opportunities 2 Id. 6 /3 '2.2

S^U/A^fe. s ?:i S 'iVi
SSEGESSP"** * S '* "

H^fJS' of the cases of Voluntary 4 33.3 /A 72.2

A 'umber c 55,850
Ay/?? r/?/ Dep'f.) ' 12
toynrnt Pep't) id



C|HE VOCATION BUREAU OF BOSTON

II'LOYING MORE THAN 55 000 PERSONS



CHAPTER III

DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE
EMPLOYMENT MANAGER

IN the nature of the case it was not to be expected
that very much uniformity would exist in the types
of organization selected for employment departments
or in the powers delegated to the executives in charge.
The size of the firm, the character of its business, and
the local labor situation are among the causes that are
certain to contribute to a diversity of practice. There
are, however, a number of essential features common
to all such departments. A statement of these points,
together with such individual characteristics as seem
noteworthy, is presented in the form of a summary of
the eighteen representative firms that were selected,
in the hope that it will provide some general impres-
sions of the work being done.

The first important function of this department
is that which centers in the selection of employees.
Familiarity must be gained with the requirements of
the firm and with the various sources which can be
drawn upon for workers of various grades. These
sources must be carefully analyzed and the most re-
liable and productive must be developed. New chan-
nels will be opened by contact with schools and col-
leges and through special representatives to other cen-

33



34 HIRING THE WORKER

ters if necessary. All advertising for help is con-
trolled by this department. Every applicant is inter-
viewed by the manager himself, or by an assistant, and
subjected to whatever tests or examinations are
deemed necessary. Records are kept, not only of all
persons employed, but of all who apply who are
thought worthy of future consideration. References
are followed up and in some cases visits are paid to
the homes of prospective employees.

A second equally valuable function is the follow up
of employees. Several concerns have analyzed and re-
corded the tasks and have adopted uniform systems
of efficiency-rating for each different kind of work.
Regardless of what the method of record keeping may
be, it is usually the aim of the employment manager
to keep in close personal touch with his men. This
ideal of intimate relationship is held by several super-
intendents who care for their own employment affairs,
but only two out of the dozen or more of this class
who were visited seemed to be actually putting it into
practice. Other problems fill his mind too completely
for the average superintendent to give sufficient atten-
tion to a personal study of his employees.

Arranging for promotions or increase in pay, trans-
fer to other departments or to different kinds of work,
and discipline, are matters which may come under the
employment manager's jurisdiction. Complete power
to determine the rates of pay is not often granted, but
the employment manager is frequently given the right
to determine beginning wage and rate of increase. In
a few cases he has been given full authority over dis-
charge. In others, he must depend upon the recom-
mendations of foremen and heads of departments.
The functions of hiring and discharge have been so




THE EMPLOYMENT MANAGER 35

long in the hands of minor officials that they are usu-
ally given up with much reluctance. It has been espe-
cially difficult to centralize the power of discharge.
Nearly all foremen, and many superintendents, feel
that it is likely to be demoralizing to the discipline of
the factory to remove the power of immediate and
summary discharge from the department heads. Ob-
jection is frequently heard to transfer and try-out at
other work on the same grounds. Employment execu-
tives usually claim on the other hand that foremen
tend in many ways to abuse the power of discharge,
that any tendency to laxity of discipline will not occur
where rigid investigation of complaints is made by the
employment department, and that a great gain is made
in saving trained employees to the company by plac-
ing them at work for which they are better fitted or in
positions where they are more contented. Where the
employment manager does not have the right to dis-
charge, he is expected to discover the reasons for each
case of discharge or voluntary leaving.

Under this department may come the training of
apprentices and new workers. In one firm a separate
department co-operating with the employment man-
ager has charge of all matters pertaining to education,
but this does not seem to be a generally adopted type of
organization.

The employment department will naturally be called
upon to attend to all matters relative to the enforce-
ment of state or Federal laws concerning the occupa-
tion of minors or women.

A function of much significance is the analysis of
the turnover. An unusual turnover in any depart-
ment will be a danger signal calling for immediate in-
vestigation. Has the right type of person been placed



36 HIRING THE WORKER

there? Is the foreman's personality to blame! Are
the working conditions bad ? These and a dozen other
questions will be called to the employment manager's
mind at once, and if he is a real executive and has the
faith of the management behind him, he will do his
best to see that conditions are changed.

Among other duties occasionally given to this de-
partment are arranging for the housing of employees,
caring for health and sanitation, providing recreation,
libraries, and lunch rooms, and acting as a general in-
formation bureau. Highly satisfactory results may be
secured through co-operation between this department
and the division of safety, particularly in the distribu-
tion of literature and in the training of new employees.
The compilation of various statistics relating to labor
costs and the conducting of special investigation such
as wage studies are frequently parts of the work. In
one firm, the employment manager assists the super-
intendent in the study of factory methods, serving in
much the same capacity as an efficiency engineer.

In another factory, the employment department has
accomplished a great deal toward reducing absence and
tardiness. No foreman allows "anyone to work who
is in the slightest degree dissatisfied, or who has the
simplest kind of injury, or who is not feeling per-
fectly well, or who is likely to be in any degree physic-
ally or mentally unfit without calling it to the im-
mediate attention of the employment department."
Through this and various other methods in use, par-
ticularly by constantly instructing employees in the
performance of new operations, this factory has re-
duced tardiness to a negligible quantity and "the ab-
sentees of many days amount to less than 1 per cent
of the working force of about 800. ' '



THE EMPLOYMENT MANAGES 37

A concrete example of the duties of the head of this
department is furnished by the following outline from
one of the firms visited:

OUTLINE OF INSTRUCTIONS TO THE EMPLOYMENT DEPARTMENT
IN A PAPER MILL

1. Office is open 8 :00 A. M. 9 :00 A. M.

1 :30 P. M. 2 :00 P. M.
5:00 P. M. 5:30 P. M.

2. Department Head shall be especially responsible for:

(a) Employment of all help.

(b) Accurate record of each employee, showing dates of

employment, transfers, promotions, when dropped,
and deportment and performance.

(c) Interviewing all applicants and sending the best to

superintendents and foremen on approval.

(d) Keeping in touch with good men not now available,

or particularly needed.

(e) Following up accidents, promotions, transfers, and

all other conditions affecting employees.

(f) Aid every employee in advancement. Recommenda-

tions for understudy.

(g) Dissemination of proper information among em-

ployees concerning all activities. (Internal pub-
licity.)

3. Obtain from superintendents and foremen general and

specific reports on employees. Also at stated intervals
(see inspection routine below) hold conference on sub-
jects with them. By these means, lists should be made
of men who deserve advancement, men who should be
transferred, men who are drinkers (graded), men who
are unfit. Reports of men in outside mills every 6
months.

4. Aid in adjusting differences. See that any dissatisfaction

is brought to the attention of the Manager.

5. Maintain list of all positions showing qualifications for

each and types of worker best suited for same.

6. Inspect daily from 9 :00 A. M. to 12 :00 A. M.

Monday and Thursday Main Mill and Finishing

Tuesday and Friday Building and Roofing

Wednesday and Saturday Box Shops



38 HIRING THE WORKER

During these inspections he shall

(a) Hold conferences as in paragraph 3.

(b) Look for all possible corrections or improvements

in existing conditions, such as

1. Brigade and Club room.

Pictures, Magazines, Details of order
and cleanliness

2. Toilet room condition

3. Drinking fountains

4. Safety, sanitation, ventilation, light, etc.

5. Steam and water leaks

6. Any disorder which should be corrected

inside and outside

7. Work of emergency crew

8. All club and social committee activities

9. Recreation facilities

10. Follow up on all activities going on

11. Grounds.

7. Following each inspection lie will make out report in dupli-
cate for each Division.

Centralizing duties of the kind mentioned in the
foregoing pages is a recent and important extension
of the principle of functional management. Just as
accounting, purchasing, advertising, and sales have
been placed under separate control, so now the group
of functions which relate to selection, progress, and
welfare of employees are found to demand a separate
division of administration. The term " service" ap-
plied to this department seems to describe most ade-
quately the relations which its head should sustain to
both management and labor. The true service man-
ager will seek to discover the common interests of
employers and working force and will help each to
serve the other to the best advantage of both. In the
advanced types of organization shown in the plans on
the following pages, the term " employment " is ap-
plied only to one division of the service department.



SAFETY INSPECTOR investigates
special cases. Investigates recom-
mendations of shop committees for
general committee.



GENERAL SAFETY COMMITTEE holds
meetings each week. Takes action
on recommendations received. Man-
ager of Service Department is a
member.



SHOP SAFETY COMMITTEES meet bi-
weekly. Discuss safety problems.
Report to general committee.




COMMITTEES:

Restaurant, works paper, club-
house, athletics, band, glee club,
grievance committee.



COMMITTEES:

Educational committee apprentice
committee, special committees of
apprentices.



COMMITTEE ORGANIZATION"




jnployees Benefit Cooperative I Suggestion Fire Fonmms

Association Store | Committee Department | Round Table



j Service Dept. Committees as shown in larger diagram!



SHIPYARD



AL SERVICE

JREAU

Manid assistants.
cle
tic

Deve

su^ion.

Selec



Intro
, , cooperative

. 1 other coopera-
P 2 ities.



Reco-



Invet



of complaints,
journal.



Issue
for



SAFETY AND
SANITATION

Safety engineer and assis-
tants.

Accident prevention.
Workmen's compensation.
Supervision of janitors.

Inspection of lockers, lava-
tories, heating, lighting,
and ventilation.

Fatigue study.
Statistics.

Cooperate with members of
the safety committee.



,000 PERSONS



LTMENT



UCATION



GENERAL SERVICE



ACTIONS



FUNCTIONS



1. Knq>oard information.

ply-



2. Km
quirt



nstructions to ern-



n of current maga-



3. Kn<

4. Km n of library books.

5. Km ublication.
menl

ns in
i.



6. Pro



(b)
(c)

(d)



ne.

if teeth.

f eyes.

r Relief Club,
on clubs.



OF SERVICE DEPARTMENT:

e an efficient, healthy, stable body of workmen.



7. Genization campaign,
empl

8. Foil

9. Inv<
10. Tra



11. Inve

12. Inte
ees.

(a)
(b)

(c)



13. Kee
ords.

14. Kee

15. Fur;
recor

16. To
geiiei



1. Supply store for employees.
(Groceries sold at cost.)

2. Farm.

(Vegetables raised and sold at
cost.)

3. fRestaurant service.

4. Supervision of housing.

5 Supervision of recreational
activities.

6. Supervision of superannuated
employees.

7. Supervision of Mutual Benefit
Association.

8. Supervision of thrift activities.



t Not under Service Organization.



Prepared by

Robert S. Quinby, M.D.
Service Manager, Hood Rubber Company.



CHAPTER IV

SYSTEMS OF ORGANIZATION AND THE COST
OF MAINTENANCE

IN many establishments, the employment depart-
ment has come to ibe a separate, highly organized
division. Its head is frequently responsible only to
the highest executive authority and has under his
immediate control a staff of assistants, clerks and
stenographers.

Question 5, Part II of the questionnaire (page 28),
" What are his relations to: (a) Owners, (b) Superin-
tendents, (c) Foremen, (d) Department Heads, (e)
Any other important executive heads, " was asked in
order to discover what forms of organization were be-
ing used for this department.

The following responses are characteristic of the
group under consideration and will serve to indicate
the general trend of practice.

No. 13. Hiring power is vested in the Employment Bu-
reau with the approval and assistance of the Administration.
No foreman is allowed to hire; but he is usually allowed to
express his opinion on an applicant and his co-operation is
sought. We try to have foremen feel that we need and re-
quest their opinion and help in hiring. There is practically
no friction.

No. 15. The work of the employment department is con-
ducted just as though the general manager himself were run-

39



40 HIEING THE WORKER

ning the department. The policies of the department have
his backing and it is a part of the responsibility of the em-
ployment department to have policies originated and devel-
oped that will not only conserve the interests of employees
but that will also receive the support of foremen and depart-
ment heads so that they will loyally carry out such policies.



No. 21. (a) Owners. Subordinate

(b) Superintendents. Superior

(c) Foreman. Superior

(d) Department Heads. Associate

(e) Any other important executive officers. Ad-

visory capacity



No. 22. (a) Owners. None

(b) Superintendents. The employment manager

confers with the superintendent in charge
of production and the superintendent in
charge of quality. He is directly respon-
sible to the factory manager.

(c) Foreman. He has authority over foremen

in all matters pertaining to employees.

(d) Department Heads. Same as (c) above.



No. 23. The chart given below will serve to explain the
plan of organization. The employment manager does all the
hiring. Superintendents and foremen have control of dis-
charge subject to investigation by the employment depart-
ment.



O YVHERS I



GEHEKAL. MANAGER



m MAHAOER \ SI/PERI* TENDENT DEPARTMENT



I FOREMEN j

CHART I. EMPLOYMENT MANAGER'S PLACE IN THE PLAN OP
ORGANIZATION



THE EMPLOYMENT DEPARTMENT



41



No. 24. The employment department carries on its neces-
sary functions with the requisite authority, but also with due
regard for the necessities and work of the other departments
in as harmonious a manner as possible. If any difficulties
arose which could not be reconciled with these people, the
appeal would be made directly to the general manager. This
is a case, however, which rarely occurs.



No. 25. (a) Owners. None. The employment manager
deals directly with the* manager and the
superintendent.
Superintendents. He is directly responsible

to the superintendent.

Foremen. Through records. The sub-time-
keeper, or foreman's clerk, reports direct
to the employment manager.



(b)



STORE MANAGER



-














I








\


\


~1


EMPLOYMENT I


POTECTIOh |


LDUC


r/c>/v 1


. X PENSE 1


S YSTEM










1














1


!


AND


MERCHANDISE

ALTERATIONS




SELUNO OKMZAVON DLlVRy MAR
SUPT. of SELLING


T//V6 flM/4

ORDERS



















FLOOH

FLOOR CLERKS



SALES PEOPLE
FLOOR BOYS



SfLLJHO DEPARTMENTS OK

SECTIONS

From a few fo several
hundred sections in
Department Stores.



CHART II. PLAN OF ORGANIZATION IN A DEPARTMENT STORE

Busi
1916.



(From "Business Employments," by Frederick J. Allen. Ginn & Co.,
Copyright by the Vocation Bureau, Boston.)



No. 26. (a) Owners. Keport direct to owners.

(b) Superintendents. Advisory.

(c) Foremen. Consult in matters of wages,

transfers, hiring, etc.

(d) Department Heads. Advisory.



42



HIRING THE WORKER



Charts II and III exemplify the type of organiza-
tion demanded by the principles outlined in Mr.
Bloomfield's introduction and in Chapter III. Imme-
diate contact with the chief executive is essential if
the employment department is to secure and maintain
a proper co-operation among other departments, and
at the same time keep open those channels, too often
closed, which l8ad from the work bench to the super-
intendent's desk. Many of the department's most im-
portant powers are likely to atrophy unless there is
the possibility of immediate action and decision from
an ultimate authority as is suggested in the reply of
No. 24 quoted above.

THE EXPENSE OF MAINTAINING AN EMPLOYMENT
DEPARTMENT

The largest single item in the expense account of
such a department is usually the salary of the official
in charge of it. The size of the other items will depend



STOCK HOLDERS \











EXECUTIVE OFFICES


DIRECTORS


PRESIDENT


V/CE- PRESIDENT


TREASURER


SuPERIt


1TENDENT


EMPLOYMENT
DEPARTMENT |


[SOCIAL SERVICE \
DEPARTMENT \


1


\


1 OFFICE MANAGER 1


| FA c TOR Y MANAGER \


1


L 1


1 '



GENERAL
OFFICES



FACTORY
OFFICES



FACTORY

DEPARTMENTS



CHART III.



TPIE PLACE OF THE EMPLOYMENT DEPARTMENT IN A
BUSINESS ORGANIZATION



THE EMPLOYMENT DEPARTMENT 43

largely upon how broad the powers are which the de-
partment is called upon to exercise. Where much in-
struction is given, or where medical inspection is prac-
ticed, or extensive welfare work attempted, the ex-
pense is necessarily large. The following examples
will serve to illustrate the wide diversity existing in
representative departments. Numbers refer to the
chart facing page 32 on which the returns from thirty
firms are tabulated.

No. 14, a publishing house, pays its manager $3600
and places the annual expense at $8400. No. 15, a
manufacturing concern employing 2300 people, main-
tains its department for $3600 annually. The only
items mentioned are the salaries of a manager and
one clerk and stationery. No. 17 has a working force
of 750 and renders much welfare and educational
service. The expense is estimated at $3000, exclusive
of the nurse's salary. No. 18, a large department
store, expended over $14000 on the employment de-
partment during 1915. The principal items were sal-
aries, advertisements for help, car fares, traveling ex-
pense, telephone, and supplies. No. 19 gives an annual
expense of $10 000 without an itemized account. No.
20 reports an annual expense of approximately $7000
expended for manager 's salary, hire of assistants, sta-
tionery, advertising, traveling expense, garage and au-
tomobile expense. No. 25 estimates the expense of
the employment office at about $800 in addition to the
work performed by the employment manager on labor
costs and pay roll. No. 26 classifies an annual expense
of $3250 as follows : Salaries, $2750 ; general expense,
$200 ; advertising, $300.

One employment manager made the following state-
ment:



44 HIRING THE WOKKER

The expense of this department is not carried in such a
way as to make it possible to separate it entirely from other
functions. Our organization here is such that the original
employment, following up, training, looking after safety mat-
ters and even the supervision of our general correspondence,
is all brought together under one department and the figures
are quite decidedly intertwined of necessity.

The fact that a considerable number of departments
report so small an expense account would point to
the conclusion that there are too many firms who still
regard the employment department as of minor sig-
nificance. They are too willing to place at its head
salaried clerks rather than highly paid executives.
The conditions must not be overlooked, in making
such a general statement, that in many small concerns
this department is closely under the control of the
general superintendent, and in some cases, where the
department has recently been organized, it has been
placed in charge of a man selected from outside the
organization, and increase in salary, as well as other
items of expense, is to be expected as the department
proves its worth.

In general, the items charged to this department will
be: Salary of manager; hire of assistants, clerks, and
stenographers; stationery; advertising; traveling ex-
penses both of department and of applicants under
certain conditions; heat, light, etc. What overhead
charges will be made will be determined by the type
of organization, but these should be small.



CHAPTER V
ANALYZING THE JOB

MANAGEMENT experts have familiarized us
with methods of analyzing, planning, and rout-
ing work. They have standardized many a job. Usu-
ally such standardization has been worked out in con-
nection with production, where objective units could
be determined with a fair degree of ease and success.

When we come to fields of work involving more per-
sonal elements than does, say, machine work, the prob-
lem of standardizing the job is much more difficult.
Time units and production units do not tell the whole
story, nor by themselves afford all the possible or
necessary criteria for defining a task.

While it is true that in retail selling, to take a fa-
miliar illustration, the final success of the salesperson
is measured by the individual volume of sales, the de-
scription of and the specifications for a selling position
can never be adequately stated in terms of goods sold
alone. To do so is to miss certain basic principles
which go to make selling success, and to confuse the
salesperson whose efficiency is necessarily a composite
of both personal and impersonal elements brought into
skillful play throughout the process of selling.

There are numerous positions in the industrial and
commercial world which are similar to salesmanship

45



46 HIRING THE WORKER

in their union of personal and impersonal factors. Un-
less the analysis of such positions and their processes
takes both phases into account, it will result in speci-
fications that appear to be good from the mechanical
point of view, but in practice are rather meaningless
and often unworkable.

Every merchant has come to realize this fact, and
the problem of laying down and charting a scheme of
tasks in which personal factors function is of general
interest.

The following is an account of an original method,
the outgrowth of wide experience with employment
projects, intended to bring to every employee of a
large establishment a vivid sense of the work to be
done and the incentives for carrying on that work
successfully.

The plan was devised by Mr. Meyer Bloomfield of
the Vocation Bureau of Boston, when invited by the
firm of Bamberger and Company of Newark, N. J., to
organize their personnel work. The store employs
about twenty-five hundred persons and is noted for its
modern methods.

Two problems were before the management in con-
sidering how to establish a more effective scheme of
relationship between the excutives and the working
force. (Let it be said at the outset that wise dealing
between management and workers for a long period
of years has solved the problem of good-will through-
out the establishment. The aim of the present under-
taking was to go further in cementing team play
throughout the organization.)

The first problem was how to obtain a fair, work-
ing description of every task performed in the store,
from the top executive down ; the second, how to make



ANALYZING THE JOB 47

the result a source of stimulus, fair dealing, and
good work.

The usual way of solving such a problem as the
first w r ould have been to get some one to study each
task or operation and draw up specifications for it.
As has been already suggested, such a method might
well have proved futile, and deservedly so, because of
its too mechanical and impersonal character. In a
large retail store there are a number of good sales-
persons who, in their daily practice, embody all the
essential principles of success in their vocation. To
fail to profit by what they do and know, and can be
helped to contribute in a statement of their duties, is
to do violence to common sense and elementary psy-
chology.

The first method, then, adopted in the Bamberger
study was to give each employee a list of questions to
answer about his routine duties, his problems and ex-
periences, together with a request for suggestions and
criticisms. An explanation of the purpose of the study
was made beforehand in order to enlist the co-opera-
tion of the people. What was especially emphasized
in laying the project open was the desire to define
fairly what the work of each actually was, and in so
doing to provide a clearer basis for fair dealing, good
service, and just compensation.

The employees were thus encouraged to li think on
the jobs," a fundamental principle, according to Mr.
Bloomfield, in all attempts at right relations and good
service, particularly service which brings employee and
public in daily contact. Now, "thinking on the job"
cannot be obtained by demanding it. Conditions for
its encouragement must be provided. The method fol-
lowed in the Bamberger study was aimed to secure



48 HIKING THE WORKER

this result, and the hundreds of returns, with their
illuminating descriptions and suggestions, proved the
value of a procedure which appeals to the empljyees
as intelligent and thinking beings.

In this attempt to chart the various tasks, besides
the unique feature of bringing to light the ideas and
experiences of those actually doing the work, several
valuable checks were devised to make the returns as
thorough as possible. One effective device was to re-
quire of every executive or superior in charge of any
group a description in detail of the tasks performed by
the various individuals under him. We have thus two
instruments in the attempt to size up a particular task :
one, the statement of those actually engaged in them ;
the other, the statement of those who have charge of
a group or division. A comparison of what a salesgirl
says about her particular work, and what the buyer or
floor manager says of that same work, affords many an
illuminating lesson. Often the two agree quite well, in
which case we are on the way to a fair definition of the
task; but when divergences appear there is food for
thought.

The plan does not stop here. Thoroughness being
the aim in the Bamberger house, two more steps are
called for before a task may be said to be defined.
An investigator is at work on a schedule of his own,
making observations of each position. He is collecting
data as to what duties and qualifications each position
involves as he sees it.

His statement, that of the worker, and that of the
supervisor in other words, the three versions of the
same task were finally given to Mr. Bloomfield, who
formulated a definition which, when passed by the firm,
became the standard specification for the task.



ANALYZING THE JOB 49

In formulating such standard task-definition the
basis is, of course, the material gathered from the
three sources already mentioned, but the final work is
essentially one of creative interpretation.

This interpretation, influenced by the data to be
found in the three statements of the same task, aims
to reconcile whatever divergences may appear in the
account and to bring out essential elements, in some
statements only hinted at and in others more or less
implied. This final step also secures a uniformity of
description and a statement representing the store
spirit and policy.

The foregoing account may give the reader the im-
pression of elaborateness of method. On the contrary,
the procedure is of the simplest. Of equal importance
with obtaining a sound task-description is the arousing
of intelligent interest in the particular task an indi-
vidual employee is doing. The co-operative survey
carried on in the Bamberger store goes a long way to
accomplish this purpose.

The plan just described is still in process of applica-
tion. It is but an initial step in the organization of a
personnel department. Among the first uses to be
made of the results is to furnish the employment de-
partment with definite data about actual needs and
requirements in every opening to be filled, and to sup-
ply new employees with details and suggestions about
the work they are engaged to do, with a definiteness
rarely found in plans for initiating new employees in
their tasks. In addition, the educational department
will find its work of instructing new employees ma-
terially forwarded. Above everything, such work car-
ried to completion establishes a basis for rating effi-
ciency less subject to personal whim and misjudgment



50 HIEING THE WORKER

1

than is the case where the demands of a task are in-
definite and shifting.

A form letter, used in the work above described,
is here given :

LISTING "UNDERSTUDIES" AND FUTURE EXECUTIVE MATERIALS

To

May I ask your co-operation in securing from you a reply
to the question below? The purpose of the question is merely
to gather information along the same line of "human" in-
ventory, as it were, which is attempted in the position sched-
ule you filled out.

The question is: Is there anyone working with you in
any capacity, whom you regard as your understudy; who
is being trained directly or indirectly in a knowledge of your
own particular work ? If there is any such person or persons
(for there may be understudies for different parts of your
work), please give me their names and tell briefly how they
are being developed.

The answer as well as the question are matters of strict
confidence ; no action of any sort, affecting any individual,
is in view.

The management is interested in learning to what extent
executives are keeping an eye on a possible assistant (al-
though no promise of any kind is implied), and what is be-
ing done to train and develop such future executive material.

If you have no one in view, will you state if you plan
to select some one in your force for development?

(Signed)

The methods in use by most firms who prepare an
analysis of the tasks are very much less thorough
than those suggested by Mr. Bloomfield. Of the fifteen
firms appearing on the chart facing page 32 only five
or six had carried their analyses far enough to include
more than a few highly specialized tasks. The usual
procedure is that described by E. J. Burke of the
Detroit Steel Products Co. 1

l The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social
Science, May, 1916, page 176.



ANALYZING THE JOB 51

When the various jobs have been classified by title or des-
ignation in each department and the one who is to write the
specifications has obtained at least a fair acquaintance with
the general nature, organization and aspects of the business
the following method of attack is suggested.

First, select some particular department and after ascer-
taining from competent authority its general kind of work
and relation to the other departments, spend some time
watching the employees at work; observe their motions, ef-
forts, habits, system. Notice what they do and how they do it,
Talk with several employees and get their idea and descrip-
tion of their respective jobs, as well as of the department
as a whoje. It is also a good plan to get the opinions and
ideas of persons not directly engaged in any work in that
department but who in the course of business come more or
less in contact with some phase of its activities.

Note the physical surroundings and general conditions.
Make copious notes.

The next step is to analyze the various jobs from the point
of what they do and why they do it. Then having satisfied
ourselves of what is necessary and essential, a rough defini-
tion may be drawn. This should cover in general a descrip-
tion of the particular job and what would seem to be re-
quired by way of a specific person to fill the job, the phys-
ical, intellectual and character essentials. When completed
this should be submitted for the opinion of those engaged,
directly or indirectly, in the work. More often than not
several changes will be found necessary because reading the
description as a whole often points out misstatements and
inadequacies to the man in the shop whose mind is not always
organized to fully and exactly express himself in conversa-
tion. It is a chief consideration to be well borne in mind that
each specification, before being adopted, should have as full
and sincere understanding and approval of those who are
to have authority over the person described, as can be had
by a practical accommodation of the various ideas and opin-
ions into one single definition. This allows for all the ad-
vantages that accrue from a spirit of common council and
makes for the successful use of the specifications.

It is also a good plan to make express statement of what
the employee need not be so as to check, if possible, the petty
notions and prejudices of some and make clear the intentions
of the management. This would cover politics, religion, race,
nationality, etc.



52 HIRING THE WORKER

Following is a sample specification for a press hand.

Power Press "A"

Department X

Power Press "A":

Should have had experience on small press and bench
machines or work similar to acquire knack, carefulness
and speed rather than any special skill. Physically such
operatives should have considerable endurance and stamina
for the work is in itself machine-like, and 90 per cent of it
is done on the feet. Height about 5 feet 2 inches to 5 feet
5 inches, with weight proportionate sturdy physique and
from 17 to 19 years of age. Good muscular co-ordination and
of such order of intelligence as is satisfied and inclined to
reduce its work to terms of continuous, single-grooved habit.

As a natural corollary it is obvious, therefore, that an over-
responsive, overkeyed, nervous organization would be dan-
gerous on account of accidents, and would also make the
work disagreeable, and hence not a "good job" from em-
ployee's standpoint. To make for a permanent force, other
things being equal, it is very essential that the intelligence
be not overactive or imaginative, and that the employee be
such as would consider himself acquiring nothing beyond his
expected stipend and the knowledge of running that kind of
machine. 1

An excellent example of this sort of work is fur-
nished by a department in a factory which provides
employment for some 2300 persons and lists over 150
different occupations, many of them found only in
this particular industry. The most difficult problem
in selection was to find non-skilled employees for these
jobs, as it was out of the question to provide skilled
operatives in sufficient numbers.

As a partial solution of the difficulty, the employ-
ment manager prepared complete specifications for
each job. The experience of high-grade workmen,

1 The author seriously questions the wisdom of the general
policy indicated by such a basis of selection. See No. 6, page
55.



ANALYZING THE JOB



53



foremen, and department heads was drawn upon, in
addition to personal observations made by the em-
ployment manager.

When completed each analysis contained a brief de-
scription of the requirements of the position: The
training and experience desirable in an employee ; age,
height, and weight best suited to the task ; the posture
of the employee, whether sitting, standing, stopping,
or walking; wages at the start, the time taken by the
average employee to earn an advance in wages, and
the probable maximum rate ; likelihood of seasonal or
constant employment at the task; a brief description
of the employee's duties.

On the basis of these job analyses, positions are
graded as "A," "B," or "C," according to maximum
earnings and general desirability of the position. Po-
sitions in group "A" are most desirable in every
way; those in group "C" least desirable. When a
position in group "A" is open, the employment de-
partment tries to fill it by advancing a group "B" em-
ployee ; or if no one is available in that group, by trans-
ferring some one from group 1 1 C. ' ' Promotions occur
often enough to make it possible for the company to
attract a much higher type of employee to positions in
grade-" C" than was possible before the new plan was
inaugurated.

On pages 54 and 55 are given sample analyses used
by this department.

The advantages of written specifications developed
along the lines suggested by this chapter may be briefly
summarized as follows:

1. Employees and executives are forced to think
seriously and systematically about the tasks and the
possibilities of better conditions, as well as of in-



54 HIKING THE WOKKER

creased production. It leads to intelligent interest on
the part of the working force.

2. The employment department is assisted in select-
ing new employees.

3. Information and suggestions can be given to new
employees with a definiteness otherwise unattained.

4. It helps establish a more effective scheme of re-
lationship between executives and the working force
and through a better understanding of requirements
lessens the likelihood of disagreement. A complete
record of facts is available when disputes arise.



DETAIL OF JOB JONES MANUFACTURING CO.

Job. No. 3-1G.

Grade.

Occupation. Gummed Label Cutter.

Duties. To cut plain and printed gummed labels in

lifts of 25, 33, or 50, with hollow steel die and

mallet.

Time Required to Learn Job. Three months.

Previous Training or Experience. Unnecessary.

Starting Wage. $8.00.

Next Advance. $9.00.

Wage Limit. $15.00.

Age. 18 to 35.

Height. 5 feet 6 inches.

Weight. 115 to 135.

Posture. Standing.

Motion. Quick.

Hands. Average.

Eyesight. Normal.

Schooling Desired. At least full grammar.

Overtime. Lay-offs. None.



ANALYZING THE JOB



55



5. It materially aids the education department in
planning and carrying on its work.

6. New opportunities for transfer and promotion
are brought to light. High-grade positions are always
filled from within and the less desirable tasks are taken
by better men because of the chance of advancement.

7. A better basis for efficiency rating is made pos-
sible. Demands are definite, instead of shifting and
subject to whim and mis judgment.

8. Close attention to each task helps to bring out
its undesirable features. Health and safety work are
promote^ 1



DETAIL OF JOB JONES MANUFACTURING CO.

Job. No. 4-1G.

Grade.

Occupation. Paper Box Maker.

Duties. To cover pasteboard forms with glued strips

of paper cut to size, so as to make fine paper boxes.

Must be vigli /-handed.

Time Required to Learn Job. Six months.

Previous Training or Experience. Unnecessary.

Starting Wage. $7.00.

Next Advance. Piece work.

Wage Limit. $12.00.

Age. 16 to 30.

Height. Average.

Posture. Sitting.

Motion. Quick.

Hands. Small.

Eyesight. Normal.

Schooling Desired. Is not a material consideration.

Overtime. Lay-offs. None.



56 HIKING THE WOKKER

9. Wage and salary schedules can be more com-
pletely standardized. Better knowledge of the task
means a more stable basis for rates of payment.

10. All the functions of the employment department
are placed upon a scientific basis. Exact knowledge of
working conditions is fundamental to all of the activi-
ties of this department. Without it, fair dealing and
industrial progress are impossible.

11. Written standard specifications for hiring fur-
nish valuable data for use in connection with the sub-
stitution of women for men and the employment of
cripples and mental defectives.

12. A thorough study of the nature of each task and
the qualifications desirable in successful employees
adds to a knowledge of the related work in various
plants of the same company, thus making it easier to
transfer men from one plant to another.

13. Where the plant is expanding rapidly, such a
study helps the employment department to keep
abreast of the labor demands of increased production.
The campaign for securing and training new employees
should be as carefully planned as the work of installing
new machinery or the provision for the supply of raw
materials.

14. Job specifications are especially helpful to new
interviewers who are not yet thoroughly familiar with
the routine of their work. They assist in carrying on
the work of interviewers for special trades who are
absent from the office for any reason.

The following page contains samples of job specifica-
tions which suggest appropriate methods of analyzing
occupations for the use of the employment office.



Index No.



OB SPECIFICATION

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

/"vp/-i Occupation.

Permanent Temporary.

Female Total

Boys Girls _... Total

p. M Lunch hr....

p. M Lunch hr

p. M Lunch hr.....

OCC. Vacation arrangements

Piece work or time

vance When Maximum

TT? A,
1 JV.nr

t-class rating:



. .

tions

EDI]- Uso blue prints

Percent of time.

r wet hot Other disadvantages

PHY 8 job ---

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS

Degree of

Weight Eyesight Strength

How many women

nen ,

ide if women are used (ventilating systems, toilets, chairs,

EXP.

"""zziiiiiizi:i;iii:i:iiiiiiiii"":""

labilities can be used, state probable number in each case,
s necessary in machinery or procedure and extent of disability

lility by number. 1. Leg 2. Arm 3. Hand

disease 6. Defective Sight 7. Defective Hearing

ENT

I:::::::::::::.

CAK -"-"--



c injuries, g general weakness.

RAT h ~ hernia '



CHAPTER VI
THE >ITAL PEOBLEM OF SELECTION

PATIENT and persistent efforts have been made
for years to develop systematic methods for
judging the fitness of different individuals for the
multitude of tasks that modern civilization has im-
posed upon its workers. Some of the phrenology and
physiognomy of an earlier day, when alchemy and
astrology were still included in the curricula of the
leading universities of Europe, has been revived and
paraded in a fresh " scientific " garb. While some of
the advocates of these systems have developed a cer-
tain amount of shrewdness in judging character and in
analyzing aptitudes, no one has yet been successful in
formulating a method based on their procedure that
is susceptible of scientific proof or that can be effec-
tively practiced by others. Applied psychology has
been somewhat more conservative. Its tentative solu-
tions are hopeful, and with continued experimentation
and the accumulation of data something practical may
be looked for in the course of time.

Interest in the vocational guidance movement is
widespread and constantly growing. Its value to in-
dustry as well as to the individual has been clearly
shown in numerous cities where a conscientious effort
has been made to make it a part of the educational

57



58 HIEING THE WORKER

program. Open-minded executives have welcomed the
spirit in industrial management that looks to a wiser
selection of employees as one of the highly important
means of stopping the waste due to irregular and
unsatisfactory employment. They are willing to co-
operate in any movement that promises more sensible
decisions by both parties to the transaction, the em-
ployer and the workman.

Some firms have already made splendid progress in
the right direction; and although their difficulties are
by no means ended, their experience is proving what
the possibilities are. We have here tried to outline a
few of the fundamental principles that are governing
fairly successful practice in the selection of employees.

APPLICATION BLANKS



Of the thirty firms listed on the chart facing page 32
only seventeen, or 56.6 per cent, use any form of appli-
cation blank. Considering only Group II, firms having
a separate employment department, the figure in-
creases to 77.7 per cent. Two other departments in
Group II make a careful record of the interview which
takes the place of the usual form. In order to arrive
at some definite conclusions as to the questions asked
on such blanks, those used by these firms and those of
eight others located in various parts of the United
States in all the application blanks of twenty-five
firms, each employing 1000 or more people and repre-
senting a wide variety of industries were analyzed
as indicated in the following table. Questions occur-
ring only once were not included in the list. None
of the questions, save the first, appeared on all of the
blanks.



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION 59

In addition to the questions appearing in the table,
two of the blanks contained numerous "self-analysis
questions " and portions to be filled out by the employ-
ment supervisor, patterned after the forms advocated
by a certain widely advertised system of selecting
employees.

Questions in the table are arranged in order accord-
ing to the number of times used.



GROUP I. QUESTIONS APPEARING ON ELEVEN OR MORE OF THE

BLANKS

1. Grve your full name and address.

2. What is your age? (or, give the date of your birth).

3. Date of this application.

4. Are you married?

5. Give the names and addresses of your former employers.

6. How long were you employed in each of your former

positions ?

7. What has been the nature and extent of your education?

8. What is your nationality?

9. For what position are you an applicant.

10. Why did you leave each of your former places of em-

ployment ?

11. What persons (or how many persons) are dependent

upon you for support?

12. What wages did you earn in each of your former posi-

tions ?

13. What is your height and weight?

14. Give the names of references other than your former

employers.

15. Have you been employed by this company before?

16. How many children have you?



GROUP II. QUESTIONS APPEARING ON FIVE TO ELEVEN OF THE

BLANKS

17. Under what foreman or in what department did you
work when previously employed by this company?



60 HIRING THE WORKER

18. Have you any disease or any mental or physical disa-

bility which might impair your ability to work? (A
general question, worded in various ways.)

19. What wages do you expect ?

20. What is your telephone number, or the number of the

nearest telephone?

21. Where were you born?

22. Do you use intoxicating liquors?

23. Give the names of your relatives or acquaintances who

are employed by us.

24. Give the date when you were previously employed by

this company.

GROUP III. QUESTIONS APPEARING ON TWO TO FIVE OF THE

BLANKS

25. Do you smoke cigarettes (or in what form do you use

tobacco) ?

26. What languages can you speak?

27. Do you live with your parents or relatives, keep house,

or board?

28. State the nature of your present employment.

29. Is your eyesight or hearing impaired in any way?

30. Give the names and addreses of your parents if they are

living.

31. Where were your parents born?

32. How much time did you lose last year (or, during the

last five years) on account of illness? State the nature
of the illness.

33. Whom shall we notify in case of a serious accident?

34. What is your father's occupation?

35. If foreign born, when did you come to the United States ?

36. What is your religion (or, of what church are you a

member) ?

37. Do you desire a permanent or a temporary position?

38. When will your services be available?

39. Have you or any of your family had tuberculosis?

40. Have you ever been ruptured?

41. Have you been divorced?

42. Are you willing to move to other divisions of our com-

pany?

43. What is your wage contribution to the support of the

family ?

44. Have you been naturalized?



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION



61



A statement similar to the following, followed by a
blank space for the applicant's signature, is often a
part of the application form :

I certify that my answers to the above questions are true,
and that the medical examination requested by the com-
pany is to be made with my consent; and I also agree to
submit to such future examinations as may be required by
the Company. I further agree that the above questions shall
form the basis and become part of my contract of employ-
ment and that any untrue answers will render the contract
null and void.

This statement may also contain a promise to join
the company's mutual aid association, or an agree-
ment that the engagement of employment may be ter-
minated at any time without notice at the option of
either the company or the employee.

Among the questions occasionally asked are the fol-
lowing :

1. What are your reasons for desiring employment with
us?

2. If employed, could you work continually?

3. What is your riding distance, in minutes, from our
factory ?

4. Have you ever had a lawsuit with the Company? (In-
serting the name of the concern, such as telephone company,
or railroad.)

5. Are you able to distinguish colors?

6. Do you ever play games of chance, or gamble in any
way whatsoever?

7. Were you ever rejected by a Guarantee or Surety Com-
pany? If so, for what reason?

8. Check the following list as accurately as you can, noting
each that pertains to you:



careful
courteous
obedient
orderly
good memory



careless

discourteous

disobedient

disorderly

forgetful



industrious

cheerful

patient

quick

sober



lazy

gloomy

impatient

slow

intemperate



62 HIRING THE WORKER

Questions 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 of the above list have
been shown by the experience of managers and by ex-
perimental psychology to be of comparatively slight
value on any application blank. The applicant cannot
pass judgment upon Numbers 5 and 8 with any degree
of assurance that his answers are correct or will agree
with the opinions of others, and he will be very un-
likely to give anything but ambiguous answers to Num-
bers 4, 6, and 7 if he feels that his replies are to be used
to his detriment.

In the case of railroads where color discrimination
is an important factor in the applicants' fitness, a
thorough experimental examination is made on this
point with entirely satisfactory results.

Where the blanks could be checked up with the prac-
tice of the firms in hiring, there was ample evidence
that answers to many of the questions on the more
complicated blanks were not considered of much value.
It is plain that a considerable number of the questions
in the above table could be of no possible significance
to most firms. One employment executive states that
the following points are the only ones deemed essential
in his department :

Name and address

Date of application

Date and place of birth

Date of immigration, if foreign born

Parentage

Languages spoken

Education

Whether married or single

Number in family

Wage contribution to family support

Kecord of previous employment

He justifies some of his selections in this way:



THE PKOBLEM OF SELECTION 63

The idea should be to keep such records as simple as pos-
sible only the important details being entered.

Languages spoken may be important in many organiza-
tions for various reasons. In this establishment English-
speaking applicants are given preference. In case employ-
ment should be given to an applicant who does not under-
stand English, the applicant must agree to attend one of the
classes in English which are held at the factory.

Where applicants do not speak the English language, it
has often been found that their residence in the country,
and, consequently, their employment, is considered merely
temporary by them. In the case of those who do not speak the
English .language, it has been found very difficult to impart
instructions and to obtain proper standards of output and
quality.

The matter of wage contribution is important. Other
things being equal, preference should be given to those who
have to support themselves or whose contribution to the fam-
ily income is a necessity. The custom of contributing the
entire earnings to the family income is often an important
element in inefficiency, especially where the contribution is
in whole or in part unnecessary. Younger women who live
at home are often required to turn over the entire contents
of their pay envelopes to the head of the family, even where
such a contribution is not necessary. By depriving the work-
er of the use of his earnings, the incentive toward efficiency
is removed and ambition destroyed. Cases of this kind are
being constantly handled by the Employment and Service
Department. A home visit by one of the staff has always
resulted in an agreement being reached with the parents
by which a stipulated sum was paid into the family exchequer
and the remainder of the earnings kept by the employee in
question and deposited in the Penny Bank. Such an ar-
rangement has always proven beneficial and has developed
an increase of efficiency ranging from twenty per cent up-
ward.

Information as to past employment is important as a rec-
ord of experience and earnings. The number of positions
held is also an indication as to whether or not the applicant
is a floater. For purposes of reference, this information is
of little or no value and is never used. Wherever possible,
however, applicants give as their references members of the
organization. This tends to keep alive in the organization an
active interest in the kind of new employees. It is, more-



64 HIRING THE WORKER

over, a good indication of the applicant's character, since,
although a person cannot always be judged by his family,
he can generally be judged by his friends.

Another employment manager who makes a constant
practice of asking for the names of acquaintances in
the employ of the company has this to say :

We have uniformly good results from the work of ap-
plicants who are recommended by our own employees. Valu-
able additional information is gathered in this way concern-
ing prospective employees, and we are frequently able to
check up cases of voluntary leaving very satisfactorily by
referring to the same persons when the employee leaves us.
Our older employees send us the majority of our applicants
because they pass around the word that it is a good place
to work.

On the whole, the practice of the most successful
employment departments would seem to indicate that
such a thing as a "standard application blank " is not
desirable. Very little has been accomplished even by
firms engaged in similar lines of work by way of stand-
ardizing their record forms. Several large companies
employ two or more different application blanks for
employees engaged for entirely dissimilar occupations,
as for office and factory help.

The cumbersome folder, such as that used by the
United States Civil Service Commission, is not gen-
erally favored. If the blank is to become a part of
the employee's permanent record, it should be on a
single sheet, not larger than about 8 by 10 inches, or
on a card about 5 by 8 inches. This facilitates filing,
and any desired information can be found at a glance.

Space is usually given on the card for a record of
such matters as the department to which the employee
is assigned, rate of wages, the date of engagement,



THE PKOBLEM OF SELECTION



65



signature of the superintendent, etc. Notes by the
interviewer can be conveniently placed on the back of
the card or sheet. Different colors are often used to
indicate different departments, or male and female
help.



Name


191




Street City


Were you ever YES If so by what
employed by Foreman
this Company No

Married
Age or Nationality
Single

Education


Height


Weight


Former Employers


Kind of Employment


From


To


Firm's Name
1
Address








Firm's Name
2
Address








Firm's Name
3
Address








Applicant Accepted By Date





FORM No. 1. APPLICATION BLANK USED BY A MANUFACTURER

OF RUBBER GOODS
The original is a thin yellow card, 6 by 4 inches, suitable for index file

Using the application blank as a means of getting
rid of undesirable candidates is usually discounte-
nanced. It is decidedly unfair to the applicant to al-
low him to waste his time in filling out a blank and
waiting possibly indefinitely to learn whether or not



66 HIRING THE WORKER

it has been acted upon. A frank statement of the rea-
sons for his rejection would help many a man, and in
the great majority of cases such a statement would
not compromise the management in any way.

The specimen blanks which follow will serve to
illustrate methods now in use by large companies that
have proved effective in practice.

Form No. 1 is used by a manufacturer of rubber
goods. All applicants are interviewed briefly by the
employment manager or his assistants. Those who
seem most desirable are brought into the inner office
for a longer consultation. The interviewer fills out
the blank, and the references are looked up and re-
corded briefly on the back of the card before the appli-
cant is finally accepted. If time permits, the employ-
ment manager calls in person upon former employers
or other acquaintances. In more urgent cases they are
called by telephone, or letters of inquiry are sent. Per-
sonal calls upon former employers have been very help-
ful in locating individual weaknesses against which
foremen or department heads may be warned.

A large department store uses Form No. 2. All
references are carefully followed up, including the
school records of applicants under 24 years of age.

Forms Nos. 3 and 4 are used by a publishing house.
No. 4 is filled out by applicants for places in the manu-
facturing department, while No. 3 is used for posi-
tions where educational requirements are of greater
importance. Applicants are shown into an ante-room,
where those who are obviously undesirable are weeded
out. Those who appear to deserve further considera-
tion are requested to fill out application blanks which
are delivered to the manager of the employment di-
vision, who thus has an opportunity to analyze each



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION



67



Fill out both sides
APPLICATION BLANK



Date

Name in full ....
Address in full-



Nearest 'Phone No.

Position wanted

Nationality Religion _

Married, Single or Divorced Age

Live with Parents, Relatives, keep house or



board.



Give No. and Relationship of persons you en-
tirely support



Give No. and Relationship of persons you
partially support



Have you or any of your relatives ever had
Tuberculosis



Have you any Physical Defects..



Are you in good health at the present time

Last grade completed in school

Are your wages assigned or trusteed at present



Have you ever been employed in this store



If applying for a selling position, with what
lines of merchandise are you most experi-
enced....



To be answered by applicants under 2 4 years of age
From what Grammar School did you graduate

Date of Graduation City or Town

Schools attended since....



In what studies did you rank best

Fill out both sides



Do not fill out this column

Engaged

Dept

Position

Salary

Promises

Approved



Record of Specials



FORM No. 2. APPLICATION BLANK USED BY A LARGE DEPART-
MENT STORE

The original is a white paper sheet, 8 by 10 inches, printed on both sides.
For back, see page 68



68



HIRING THE WORKER





1 ^*'










































p ci


























Q














_^


1
>> w


























i














Jj


S


























i


o












1


^K


























S


H

























































is^





























PH












i


II


























a
^


O

O












o


dQ>-a





























o









































o

















a 03








































Q


i"8


























s














>

o


0*0


























o |














a


11


























"te fl














I mentic


*0 y


1






























?^

>

31














|


'^


E


H


PH


^





fcS


s


E--





S


fa


o


l~














1




























o o

xB. 00














*H




























_, fl














."i |




























g.S
S2












1


S S
12

l|








B




$
















I men or woi
family phys


ADDRESS










BQ

(I


s !




Jb


1


Busines


3

3

s ?


Busines


L


a :
S 'I


!

5 ?


1 .:

JH


i


J




essional
istor's,












^


i




P


H "


"o P




SB


5 O


sJ


: o


'

^c P


5 '^


"3 a


H "


"o a














1




li

^ >


3
3 "3

< cc


1

^ J>


3 .

H ?


li

r^ >


3 __^


1!

-H '^


:

: 7?


1 !

^ >






5 _;


&>
\f*

1|














d










































j


K


























'w w














o


P


























^ a











































"OHH














M


&


























to














O


^


























i














f-





























CO














1


H


























5











































3














P,





























*^














b


S


























T5

q















s


o


























C3


ff^t












CD


03





























^














i


























a


55








































o3














o


M

(3




























585
















n










































a


























|
















Q











































z














































00








03






























fe


g


1


o


'g


9





s


E


c


|





1


















- a




2


IB


?




-




f!


|


-


g


T3


















*


PH


"*<


^


^


*


^


P-


<


s


^


^


<

















6 S



THE PKOBLEM OF SELECTION



69



APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENT Dafp






Name in full Date of Birth .


Address Telenhonfi No.


Name and Home
of Parent or Guarc

Grammar
School


Address
lian


Years in College or Com-
Hiorh School merci.il School


Married Previous Sala]
or Single . . Salary Exp(


r y Ever Employed
icted by this Company


Position Desired


Name

Address ....
Nature of Position
Length of Service
Reason for Leaving
{Nam<
Nam<


Latest
Employment


Previously
Employed by


Previously
Employed by


























3 Address


3 Address





FORM No. 3. APPLICATION USED BY A PUBLISHING HOUSE

The original is on white paper, 8 inches wide and 5 inches high. As here
condensed it serves to show the printed matter only. See page 70

applicant's previous experience before lie is shown
into the manager's inner office.

Application blanks in the employment department
using Form No. 5 are classified as to age, sex, and
apparent suitability. Persons are never hired at the
time the applications are made, but one or more ap-
plicants are sent for when a position is to be filled.
A definite time is set for their appearance, and self-



70



HIRING THE WORKER



Name .-

Employed as

Department Division

Date of Registry
Engagement Salary Number List.

f In In f In In

Hours \ Sat. j

[ Out Out [ Out Out

Mgr Approved

Salary Increases

Transfers

Date of Discontinue Qualifications

Cause

Late Absent

Employed as

Department Division

Date of Registry

Engagement Salary Number..... .. List.

f In In f In In

Hours \ Sat J

[ Out Out ( Out Out

Mgr Approved

Salary Increases

Transfers

Date of Discontinue Qualifications

Cause

Late Absent

Employed as

Department Division

Date of Registry
Engagement Salary Number List..

f In In f In , In

Hours \ Sat. \

( Out Out ( Out Out

Mgr Approved

Salary Increases

Transfers

Date of Discontinue Qualifications

Cause

Late.... .. Absent.....



FORM No. 3. BACK
For face of this form see page 69



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION 71

addressed postal cards are enclosed to be mailed in
case appointments cannot be kept. At the second in-
terview selection is made for immediate employment,
and the fitness of the applicant is decided upon the
basis of the interview and a medical examination.



MANUFACTURING DEPARTMENT

[COPY'
APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENT

TO

The Company



Date.



1. Name in Full

2. Home Address

3. Present Age Date of Birth.

4. Married or Single

5. Position Desired

6. Experience



7. Member of Labor Organization.
"Present or Latest Employer...

Position

Length of Service

. Reason for Leaving

9. Former Employers



3585B



FORM No. 4. USED BY A PUBLISHING HOUSE

The original is 8 inches wide and 5 inches high; and the reproduction here
shows the type matter but distorts the spacing. For back, see page 72



72 HIRING THE WORKER



RECORD OF EMPLOYEE
Name ,..'. Registry No




1. Employed as ; . in Division

2. Date of Engagement 191 . Salary $ per

3. Discontinued

4. Cause

5. Late Times Minutes. Absent Times Days

6. Deportment

7. Remarks .,

8. Signed Mgr. ... ....Supt,



1. Employed as in Division

2. Date of Engagement 191 . Salary $ per

3. Discontinued

4. Cause 1

5. Late Times ...Minutes. Absent Times Days

6. Deportment

7. Remarks .'.

8. Signed.... .. Mgr. ... ....Supt.



1. Employed as in.... ...Division

2. Date of Engagement 191 . Salary $ per

3. Discontinued

4. Cause

5. Late Times Minutes. Absent Times Days

6. Deportment r

7. Remarks

8. Signed Mgr Supt.



FORM No. 4. BACK
For face of this form see page 71



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION



73



cr

I.

P

g

3

I


1

W

1


EMPLOYED May 10, 1915
Operation Sleeves felled


1 2 3 1
i .

H- 3
O CO C/)
P 03 B
3 -J H-
t-1 r+-

p-v tr

H- CO {?=
H- P
t+ ?? O
H- CD O
3 *~l

o r 1

O O p


1 PREVIOUS EMPLOYMENT


REFERENCES

(IN OUR EMPLOY)

Mary Smith
Susie Jones


APPLIED Apr. 15, 1915
Birthdate Oct. 6, 1897
Immigrated
Family F.M. S 14-12-1




APPLICATION RECORD OF


i-j






* *""J ^






O)




M*






P CO










00






' <-'

(0






^) W >


a
o


B' hrj












o g: &


CD


r S




W








f\3 1 ^3 o


*


3




*<








w sT


C_4


o












CJ3 Q


P


13


50


g;








M


3
CD


||






M
^ CO M W


H




fr g 8




-8|

!SJ






B B ^ B
"J


i'


w w


^ P ^

3 00

cr


SAMPLE


ff


IT"


o a: o n

M O M P
H- d CD 3






fl"


I


1 ^


>d co -j a.

T3 CD H-
H- ^ O C/l


p




U)

H- <




w cS


1


* 33


3 O P CD

ora "-J M ^

N- LJ.


B.









S- P


C-,


(1


p


^








I 1 ??


p

3

f\\


o /*


w










CD O^
i-l


xU




CJl t^ Ul -^






? |? | o




h-


CD







^^




^S 3 ^




|




o p


o 01




1




o 5' 2^ DC
y a- p. p




P




c. 2


-3 -3 t" 1 O
"J H-






J O . ^

p o




^







^ CO






" ^ J_J Jj^









1


e cr co






M




"






a 4 CD ^ P










f

o




9 ?


M P r*
CD P UM H-
c-- CD CO


g




H-
P




-




o S"


^ CO ->
H . 3* P


W




-^




O




i_ .


r*- O O


H<




CD




B




CD ^


3* B r+


o-




o




P




!g


-, o'


P-




CD




a




.


03 3






CO




2




^


CD TO






P










CO












74



HIRING THE WORKER



to





























a




^













bO

rH




rH

rH

O




CO


a


13






to


O



CO
CO




;areful




CO

cd








1






R


v




H 3








rH

CO


TJ














n


(D



CO


p,


G


.






*
















rH


(D
CO


^_>


rH









rH




cd


cd






o


H


cd


P!^


o






s


&


o




H




to


to




JS




rH
ft


O









bO


g


&





a




O


H





c







rH

o


cd

D


I*
O


3

o

c


1



CO

p




s


ft




cd


bO








c/i


cd


O


"S




r |


5


CO



H


c

H


CO
3

o





cd


H


rH

ft


rH



0-,


CO
CO




t-t

H
CO

Q)



o


o




"cd




. o


rH

CO

H


Q






X!


1




3 1


rH


>>




|


o
o


06

fe


bO


O

H


rH
rH

cd





bO




o


o


Ci +*


a


o









B


W t>




c


H
CO


CO

H




S





ALIFICA


tdO .2

1 1


1







H



CO

H



ft


P

O*


Is














THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION



75



Eeferences are rarely looked up by the department
using Form No. 6. The manager considers that it is
worth while to talk about candidates with his own
employees, but believes that employers as a rule give
out no information that is very helpful. The inter-



EMPLOYMENT RECORD

Name of Applicant Date

Address Clock No

NEAREST TELEPHONE (Name and Number)

Rate of Pay Wanted Jf

Where born Birthplace of Father

Date of Birth Birthplace of Mother

Married? Number Dependent for Support.

Did you go to Grammar School? High School?

College or Tech.?....

fit

Name of last school attended Did you graduate? ^

What course did you take?

What trade? Where learned?

Previous Employment (Last 3 jobs)

3

"S

Reasons for -g
Firm Kind of Work From To Leaving be

I

References (Give 3 names preferably of those working here.)

To
. 8
(OVER)



FORM No. 6

Original is a blue card, 8 inches wide by 5 inches high. The reproduction
here distorts the proportions and spacing. For back, see page 76



76 HIEING THE WORKER

viewer, in conversation with the applicant, draws him
out as much as possible and from this interview re-



INTERVIEWER'S IMPRESSIONS AS TO

Willingness to Work

Knowledge of Work.

Probable Activity

Probable Initiative

Probable Loyalty

Courtesy

Sobriety ,

Booster vs Knocker

Willingness to Improve

Stability

Hired by Dept






FORM No. 6. BACK
Text matter. See explanation under Form No. 6, page 75

cords on the reverse of the form his impressions of the
qualities of the man as to

Willingness to work,

Knowledge of work,

Probable activity,

Probable initiative,

Probable loyalty,

Courtesy,

Sobriety,

Booster v s Knocker,

Willingness to improve,

Stability.



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION 77



APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENT WITH MANUFACTURING COMPANY

ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS FULLY AND FRANKLY.

No Date 19 1.....

NSITIG in full..... . ............................. ....

Address in full



Descent or Date of

nationality birth . Height Weight

Married Have you any How many dependent

or single children?. ... upon you for support?

Do you live How long have you lived

with your parents? at your present address?



Have you

any tr.ade? What kind of work do you wish?

Give grade of last If employed here can

school you attended? you work continuously?...

Have you any How much time have you

Is your physical or lost by sickness during
health- good? mental defect? the past year?



Have you been em- Dept. Wages

ployed here before? When number earned..

Why did you leave?..,

Where did you work last?

Wages How many hours a
How long?.. earned week did you work?

Why did you leave?.

Where did you work
previous to the last place?..

Wages How many hours a
How long? . . earned week did you work?

Why did you leave?

Have you any relatives
working in this factory?

Give the name of someone

in this factory with

whom you are acquainted

Give us the names and addresses of two persons, other than relatives or personal freinds,
to whom we can refer



This will give you notice that we have provided for payment to our injured employees under
Chap. 731 acts of 1911



FORM No. 7. APPLICATION BLANK DESIGNED TO SERVE AS

PERMANENT RECORD
White paper, 6 inches wide and 8 inches high. For back, see page 78



78 HIRING THE WORKER

Note is also made on the card to show by whom the
man is hired and in what department. Then he is
turned over to the physician's assistant who fills the
blanks after "height," "weight," etc., at the end of
the card. The physician is then called in to complete
the medical examination. (See Form No. 8, page 88.)



BELOW LINES ARE NOT TO BE FILLED OUT BY APPLICANT.

Employed Work to Starting

for Dept begin Position Wage



Estimate




Left Reason for leaving.

Remarks



FORM No. 7. BACK

This text is carried on the upper half of the back of the form shown on

page 77

The application blank shown in Form No. 7 is folded
at the dotted line in the center and placed in a manila
folder of the same size which will later contain all the
employee's records such as transfers, suggestions
made, training-department records, etc.

INTERVIEWS

Of the thirty-seven firms visited by the writer, thirty
claimed to have a fairly extended interview with each



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION 79

applicant. The other seven hire a large amount of
unskilled help and often ask very few questions of
prospective employees. The following are representa-
tive responses from the firms who replied to Question
No. 4, Part III, of the questionnaire: "What ques-
tions do applicants answer other than those on your
application blank?" (Numbers refer to the firms
listed on the chart, facing page 32.)



No. 5. Have no application blank. Questions of a general
nature are asked, usually relating to the job, in order to get
man to express himself. Find out about habits, family, etc.

No. 10. No application blank is used. Ask: Married;
nationality; residence; former employers, etc. References
are followed up for permanent employees, not for temporary
help.

No. 12. Two superintendents interview all applicants.
The general superintendent spends as much time as pos-
sible with them while they are meeting new employees. He
feels that although the two superintendents are experienced
men, he can still give helpful suggestions at times, and likes,
moreover, to take a great deal of personal interest in his
employees.

No. 13. Impossible to answer in detail. A general con-
versation is carried on with an attempt to get all possible
information about the applicant: His past experience; edu-
cation; family life; likes and dislikes; general characteris-
tics.

No. 14. After the applicant has filled out an application
blank he is shown into the manager's office for an interview.
We feel there is much to be gained from Doctor Katherine
Blackford's teachings, although we are not prepared to ac-
cept them simon-pure yet. . . .

Most of us judge unconsciously by fundamental phreno-
logical standards. A firm, steady eye indicates honesty and
reliability and a shifty eye indicates shiftiness of character.
With most of us, however, the color of the eye as yet re-
mains of no significance. We judge by the set of the chin,
the shape of the mouth, the courteous vigor of the hand-
grip, the individual's address and bearing.

We judge, too, by the individual's clothes, for as a general



80 HIRING THE WORKER

proposition, conservation in clothes suggests a desirable men-
tal equivalent, and shabbiness or carelessness that would be
a liability in most positions.

For certain clerical positions such as those of stenographer,
typist or auditor, the applicant is also required to undergo
a test and to measure up to certain standards before he or
she is referred to the executive in the operating department.

Immediately after the interview, or during it, the manager
of the employment division fills out one of our analysis cards
with which it is possible to mentally reconstruct the applicant
at any future time, in order to consider him for any later
vacancy, if he is not employed immediately. These analysis
cards contain eight divisions, as follows:

Personality

Build

English

Executive

Detail
Type of mind Promotive

Accounting

Analytical
Appearance

Super-alert

Alert
Mentality Average

Slow

Dull

Initiative
Remarks

These phrases explain themselves, with the exception, pos-
sibly of "super-alert." This home-made phrase is intended
to suggest that type of mind which is too active almost ef-
fervescent; a type of mind which is seldom accompanied by
the stability and saneness which are requisites in most posi-
tions.

No. 15. We have no "set" of questions. We ask any-
thing that will enable us to reach a decision as to applicant's
ability and probable permanency. In selecting from our
waiting list an applicant for a given position, we review the
information revealed by the interview and the application
blank. If it is decided that an applicant can meet the re-
quirements of a certain job, we then give consideration to any



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION 81

influence external to the industry which may cause the ap-
plicant to leave. We ascertain why he seeks employment
with us ; where he regularly lives ; what his earnings were in
his former position, and why he left it. In most cases we
can get in addition other information from persons in our
employ, the names of whom are usually given by applicants
as references.

No. 17. Besides questions appearing on our application
blanks, employees answer a number of questions mostly re-
lating to personal affairs, their past general history and
their attitude of mind. The results are noted on the back of
the application blank. The chief thing is to have the em-
ployee talk and tell all about himself.

No. 19. We use no application blank. The employment
manager conducts a personal interview and makes notes for
his reference file.

No. 21. Seldom any questions of value.

No. 23. Men are questioned as to particular class of work
they have been working on, also as to any other work they
may be capable of doing. They are asked whether or not
they have served an apprenticeship at the particular trade
in question. There are many other small questions peculiar
to each job which are too numerous to mention, here.

No. 24. No specific questions. The interviewer tries to
draw each man out to talk about himself.

No. 25. We question as to experience and especially as to
kind of machinery used. Try to find out whether or not girls
are nervous in order to avoid putting such cases on ma-
chines. Ask about family; number, whether boarding or
living at home, any dependents.

No. 26. Condition of health, financial status, and some
family history. Kind of work desired. Probable length of
employment, whether seeking temporary or permanent work.
Whether member of Union.

No. 30. Detailed inquiry into experience of skilled per-
sons.



A very common practice is that of requesting a
foreman, department head, or other executive to in-
terview and pass upon an applicant before lie is finally
employed. Not only does this serve to overcome in
part the dislike of foremen or department heads to



82 HIKING THE WORKER

the relinquishment of their former authority where em-
ployment departments have been newly instituted, but
it is also commendable as a means of getting a second
person's judgment upon the case. In this connection
Professor Walter Dill Scott of Northwestern Univer-
sity makes these suggestions :

The technical ability of the applicant for a selling posi-
tion is determined by means of a selling performance as indi-
cated by the following "Instruction to Applicants" blank.
Each "Buyer" estimates the selling performance on a per-
centage basis. The estimates of these several "Buyers" are
combined into a single grade expressive of the applicant's
technical ability as a salesman. Whatever the technical abil-
ity is, it must be expressed in quantitative terms before it
becomes serviceable.

INSTRUCTION TO APPLICANTS

In Room A is a merchant who is to be regarded as a
"buyer." You are to enter Room A, introduce yourself to
Merchant A, and try to sell him some kind of merchandise.
You will spend five minutes with Mr. A, then pass on to
Room B and repeat your selling talk to Merchant B. You
will keep this up till you have called on all the "buyers."

You may sell any line of merchandise. The following are
examples: automobiles, breakfast food, clothing, fountain
pens, life insurance, office supplies, real estate, rubber goods,
sporting goods, tobacco, typewriters, etc.

You may make the same talk to each "buyer." If you
decide to sell an automobile, then you may assume that each
of the merchants is an automobile dealer. If you decide
to sell a breakfast food, then assume that each "buyer" is
a grocer, etc.

Present your merchandise for five minutes in such a way
that the "buyer" will actually want to purchase your line.
Sell as you would if the "buyer" were a real prospective.

Prepare your line of talk in advance.

The personality of the applicant is an important factor
but one particularly hard to reduce to quantitative determi-
nations. The method which the writer has been employing is



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION 83

to have several "Interviewers" pass judgment upon the ap-
plicant. This judgment is based on personal appearance,
tact, industry, promise of usefulness to the company, etc.
Whatever the qualities are that are judged the "Interview-
ers" must summarize their judgment in a single figure, ordi-
narily, but not necessarily, a percentage figure. The judg-
ments of all the "Interviewers" are then combined into a
single figure expressive of the personality of the applicant.
Some of these fine quantitative determinations cited are
of more importance than others but all must be combined
into a single figure. This may be done by weighting the
different figures according to their relative importance. The
advantage of these different quantitative determinations and
of the one summarized quantitative determination is that it
makes it possible to compare these original estimates with
later success. The adequacy or inadequacy of the parts of
the test or of the whole system of testing can thus be ac-
curately determined. In this way any particular test is
eliminated if the prognosis based on that test fails to
correspond to the later history of the worker. The chief
advantage of the methods indicated above is not in having
the right methods of testing to start with, but in having a
method of handling results which make it possible to elimi-
nate the unsuccessful factors in the test and strengthen those
factors which are successful.

Thus far we have dwelt upon the interview as a
source of information for the employer, but it ought
by no means to end there. It is quite as important
to everyone concerned that the applicant be fully in-
formed about the prospective position. In nearly
every case the interviewer is intent upon only one
aspect of the situation, that of discovering whether
the person before him has the necessary qualifications
to fit the task. He is too frequently in a hurry, curt,
even domineering. The situation is apt to be formal,
strained, and the applicant self-conscious and bent
upon making a good impression to the complete ex-
clusion of any effort to inform himself as to the de-
tailed requirements of the position. Even with older



84 HIRING THE WORKER

persons and experienced employees the situation is
quite sure to be bad enough, and in the case of young
or inexperienced candidates its worst features are ac-
centuated. By taking only a few minutes longer in the
interview, a great deal of trouble and misunderstand-
ing could often be saved for both parties.

Some of the most important topics that ought to be
considered before the engagement of an employee is
completed are contained in this statement from a very
successful employment manager :

When an applicant is engaged, the requirements of the po-
sition he is about to fill are clearly outlined to him. For this
purpose the job analysis is followed, so that every point
which should interest the new employee is covered. On the
subject of wages, care is used to underestimate slightly the
probable earnings, so that the new employee is not misled
by a too favorable outline of the job. He is informed con-
cerning the hours of employment, of the advantages that
come from steady work, and of the aims of our organization.

There are other questions of significance that the
candidate may ask or that may be emphasized, but the
clear comprehension of his duties are of primary im-
portance.

The employment manager of a large publishing
house mentions this point in a discussion of proce-
dure in the interview:

Before any applicant for a prospective position is rec-
ommended, he must be told what the general nature of the
work will be and given exact information regarding working
hours, salary, and the possibility of advancement. He should
be encouraged to ask questions about the work, and should
not be recommended if he shows the slightest hesitancy in
complying 1 with the conditions.

Besides explaining the general character of the busi-
ness to apprentices and inexperienced persons, there



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION 85

ought to be a frank discussion of such matters as
health conditions, safety, time required to learn the
trade, the likelihood of the work taking them to other
parts of the city or to other cities, social advantages
both within and without the organization, and the op-
portunities for promotion.

Working hours will vary considerably in different
localities and in various occupations. They are of im-
portance in relation to the exhaustive nature of the
work, the distance of the candidate's residence, his
physical strength, family obligations, and plans for
study and recreation. Especially likely to be misun-
derstood are the probability of overtime or lay-offs,
and the arrangements for free afternoons and vaca-
tions.

A fair financial statement will include the starting
wage, rate of increase in case the employee makes
good, average earnings of employees in similar posi-
tions, and the opportunity for advancement to posi-
tions requiring greater knowledge or skill or involving
greater responsibility. Such questions as the prob-
able duration of the work if it is likely to prove tem-
porary, expense charges for damage, loss and break-
age, the policy of the firm in regard to giving ref-
erences when the term of employment is terminated,
are all of prime importance, and the candidate has a
perfect right to be informed about them.

MEDICAL EXAMINATION

One of the significant facts brought out by the com-
parison of Groups I and II in the chart facing page 32
is that none of the firms without employment depart-
ments had instituted any form of physical or medical



"86 HIEING THE WOEKEB

examination of applicants. On the other hand, seven
employment departments, over 38 per cent of Group
II, had nurses and physicians in attendance and made
a thorough examination of all prospective employees.

Although objection is frequently raised to medical
supervision on the grounds that it is apt to arouse
suspicion on the part of some employees and that many
will refuse to apply on account of it, the experience
of all the managers interviewed was decidedly in favor
of it. One firm employing over 3000 men stated that
during the year following the inauguration of medical
examination only a half-dozen men had refused to take
the examination. Of these there was no doubt that
four or five would have been rejected by the physician.
The majority of intelligent workmen are glad to take
such an examination on account of the valuable infor-
mation it gives them and because it brings them in con-
tact with the physician to whom they will apply later in
case of sickness or accident.

While the number of rejections is usually small, the
proportion of those who need medical attention is cer-
tain to be quite large. From 20 to 25 per cent are
likely to be found with definite diseased conditions,
while the number who have had no adequate dental
care may be as high as 90 or 95 per cent.

The blank used by No. 24 is reproduced in Form,
No. 8. This firm has a physician and one or more
nurses in constant attendance. After the applicant has
been passed by the interviewer, he is taken in charge
by the physician's assistant who fills out the blanks at
the end of the card used for the first interview (see
Form No. 6) and makes the examination of eyes, ears,
throat, etc. The physician is then called in to com-
plete the examination.



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION 87



HEALTH AND SANITATION DEPARTMENT
Name Age



Address



Dept. No. Date



Gen. Appearance



Eyes: Vision Dist 10 Ft.



Ears: Hears Watch



Nose



Throat



Tongue



Teeth



Neck



Chest Contour



Heart



Lungs



Abdomen



Ing. Reg.



G. U.



Spine



Skin



FORM No. 8. MEDICAL EXAMINATION RECORD
Thin card, 5 inches wide and 8 inches high. For back, see page 88



88



HIRING THE WORKER




Pulse



B. P.



Urinalysis



Color



Alb.



Ppt.



Sugar



Sp. Gr.



Microscop.



React.



Summary



FORM No. 8. BACK
For face, see page 87



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION 89

Form No. 9 is a simpler form used by a large manu-
facturing concern. It is made out in duplicate, one
copy being retained by the physician and the other
returned to the employment office.



ORIGINAL

191

Dr

Please examine bearer, who has applied

to this Company for employment as



in



its office ry > an d report the result of your examination to us



promptly.

Signature of Applicant:



Employment Dept.
DOCTOR'S REMARKS:
No. 71802

Signed



FORM No. 9. SIMPLER FORM OP MEDICAL RECORD

Thin paper, 5% inches wide and 4 inches high, perforated for folding,

manifolding, and detaching

The experience of the firms that have been most suc-
cessful with medical inspection seems to indicate that
a very thorough examination is quite necessary. Dr.
W. Irving Clark, Jr., of the Norton Grinding Co. of
Worcester, Mass., says on this point l :

1 Journal of the American Medical Association, Jan. 6, 1917, page 5.
* ' Medical Supervision of Factory Employees. ' '



90 HIRING THE WORKER

We believe that the applicant should be completely stripped
at some point during the examination and that as thorough
examination should be made as in a general hospital on the
admission of any medical case. We consider blood pressure
a distinct advantage as an indication of possible trouble in
the kidneys. This is especially valuable as a time saving
device, being much quicker, and simpler than making a urin-
alysis of all cases. Our rule is to do blood pressure on every
man over 20, to do urinalysis on every person under 40 who
has a systolic pressure of 150 or over, or a diastolic of 100
or over. All men over 40 years have a urinalysis regardless
of their blood pressure.

Among the chief reasons for rejections are : 1, Con-
tagious diseases of various sorts, such as venereal dis-
ease, tuberculosis, and skin or eye diseases; 2, Physi-
cal unfitness not of a contagious nature, as rupture,
eye or ear trouble, defective teeth, flat feet, varicose
veins, hernia, chronic cases of headache, neuralgia, or
stomach trouble.

The number of rejections will depend upon numer-
ous variable factors, such as the condition of the labor
market, the nature of the business and the character
of the work, the health and compensation laws of the
State, health standards set by the firm, and the person-
ality of the physician in charge. From 3 to 5 per cent
rejected is a fair average among the firms which are
making medical examinations.

Among the advantages to be derived are those enu-
merated below.

1. Candidates who are manifestly unfit are rejected
at once, thus saving the company the expense of train-
ing them and later replacing them.

2. Employees and patrons are protected from con-
tagious disease.

3. Doubtful cases can be followed up closely and



THE PKOBLEM OF SELECTION 91

minor ailments or defects remedied before they be-
come acute.

4. A combination of the job analysis with medical
examination opens the way to placing employees to
better advantage and makes it easier to transfer to
other departments those whose health unfits them for
the work they are doing. Several companies have
proved that with careful placement and close super-
vision it is possible to retain employees with grave
physical defects without extra hazard in accidents.

5. Indigestion, headache, neuralgia, and other com-
plaints resulting from defective teeth are reduced in
number, thereby reducing tardiness and absence.

6. Accidents due to defective hearing and vision are
lessened. Claims for injuries received in some pre-
vious place of employment can be readily disproved.

7. Raising health standards is sure to result in a
more efficient, better contented working force. The
employee as well as the company profits by an en-
deavor to determine in advance the probability of the
applicant being able to meet the adverse conditions
imposed by the task.

PSYCHOLOGICAL TESTS

Only three of the thirty firms tabulated, or 10 per
cent of the total number, were making any use of
psychological tests. No. 15 was very much interested
in the development of psychological aids to selection
and had tried out three simple tests with varying de-
grees of success. All the tests which he had used were
selected to measure some one highly developed func-
tion. While he was quite sure that at least one of the
tests had been of value, he did not feel that his work



92 HIKING THE WOKKER

had progressed beyond the early experimental stage.
He was continuing and extending his experiments.

No. 17 had made use of general intelligence tests
with two purposes in mind : (1) As a check against the
original placement of mentally deficient persons on
work for which they are unfit; (2) to prevent the pro-
motion of persons to clerical or executive positions
who are intellectually unequal to them. Emphasis is
laid upon the fact that the tests are designed and are
relied upon merely as one means of discovering the in-
dividual's limitations.

The reply of No. 13 is quoted in full :

It is an injustice to call these tests psychological. Common-
sense practical tests for determining relative mental ability
of applicants would be a much more logical name for them.
There is a tremendous difference between psychology and
phrenology and many is the phrenological crime committed
under the mask of psychology. We are using a system of
tests covering the following general headings:

1. General intelligence

2. Imagination

3. Word building

4. Trabue or sentence completion

5. Card sorting

6. Inventive ability

7. Mechanical ability

8. Standard "A" test for quickness of perception and

motor co-ordination

9. Mathematical ability

10. Group judgment, or the judgment of a class of ap-

plicants by each individual member.

11. Complete physical examination

12. Five minute interviews by several interviewers who

rank independently according to their own judg-
ment of applicant's ability.

This gives a fairly comprehensive result as far as the test
is concerned, and this test result is correlated with the tabu-



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION 93

lation of interviewers' judgment. All tests of this nature
are to-day in an embryo stage, and it is improbable that they
ever could be, or should be, considered as final estimates ; but
our practice has proven conclusively that the tests used here
are a very valuable aid to judgment of certain mental ca-
pacities in the selection of high grade employees. We have
made no attempt to use these tests on the rank and file of
mill operatives, and perhaps have found them most useful
in the case of applicants for clerical, sales, efficiency, and
executive work. We can certainly state that within the scope
for which we use them they are extremely helpful, but I
wish to emphasize the fact that in the use of all such mediums
by which to aid the judgment in the selection of employees,
the most important requisite is the continual use of plain
common-sense in very large doses.



A majority of the writers on this subject have been
willing to admit, as did Dr. Hugo Miinsterberg, that
" completed investigations do not as yet exist in this
field," but the sanguine tone of their reports coupled
with the natural desire of employers to find quicker
and surer methods for selecting workers has led to
a great deal of misplaced faith in the utility of psy-
chological tests and experiments.

The following points ought to be very carefully con-
sidered by any firm that contemplates the introduc-
tion of methods of this sort.

1. Aside from modifications of the Binet scale for
determining mental ability, there are no tests which
have been tried on a sufficient number of individuals
to give standards that are in any degree trustworthy.
Even the modified Binet standards are not to be de-
pended upon for persons over 15 years of age.

2. Better methods of securing standards must be
devised in order to obviate errors arising from chance
samplings. Because of the small number of individ-
uals examined, it is likely that many of the proposed



94 HIRING THE WORKER

tests fail to cover the full range of the abilities or
qualities tested.

3. The low percentage of correlation between the



M

Dear..



M has applied to us for a

position as and refers us to you. W^ill you

kindly write us how long you have known the applicant and in what

relation, and if you consider h honest and of good habits. We

should like also to have you give us the names and addresses of any
persons for whom the applicant has worked, as this will enable us to
judge the applicant to better advantage.

Thanking you in advance for your courtesy and assuring you that
your reply will be treated as strictly confidential, we remain

Yours very truly,
Per....



Remarks .



Signed.



FORM No. 10. INQUIRY USED BY A DEPARTMENT STORE

Original is printed on a regular letter sheet, 83^ by 11 inches, bearing the

company's letterhead



THE PEOBLEM OF SELECTION 95

results of tests so far proposed and the success of in-
dividuals in the occupations implies that injustice is
certain to be done in many cases, if the standards set



M.



Dear.



M : has applied to us for a position, giving

your name as that of a former employer. It is necessary for us to verify
the applicant's personal character and record of time. We shall appre-
ciate, therefore, an answer to the questions below at your earliest con-
venience, and assure you that your reply will be held strictly confiden-
tial, and that we shall be glad to reciprocate at any time.

Per....



Data regarding employment with you.

Department

Worked under

Entered your employ? Habits good while in your employ?

Left your employ? Strictly honest in every way?

Position filled?..

Discharge or resigned and why? Name other places where applicant

has worked?

Work satisfactory? T



Additional Remarks :



Signed...



FORM No. 11. INQUIRY USED BY A DEPARTMENT STORE

Original is printed on a regular letter sheet, 8^ by 11 inches, carrying

the company's letterhead



96 HIRING THE WORKEE

are applied indiscriminately and without the exercise
of careful judgment.

4. Eesults from the tests now offered cannot be
successfully interpreted by persons who lack a wide
experience in psychological methods. Their use ought



19

Principal of



Dear

M of has

applied to us for a position stating that he attended your

school in Will you kindly

answer the questions on the other side concerning h and
also give us any other information that may be of value to
us. Thanking you in advance for your courtesy and assur-
ing you that your reply will be held strictly confidential, we

beg to remain,

Yours very truly,

Per....



Form S 360



FORM No. 12. INQUIRY FORM USED BY A DEPARTMENT STORE

A thin paper slip, 8^/2 inches wide and 4J/2 inches high. For back, see

opposite page

not to be recommended indiscriminately to employ-
ment managers who are not fully prepared to carry
on work that still partakes very much of the nature
of research experimentation, and who lack the train-
ing in statistical methods required for the interpre-
tation of results and the compilation of new standards.
5. The best psychological tests so f^ devised seem



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION 97

to be those which create situations as nearly as pos-
sible like the actual shop task.

For a further discussion of psychological tests see
our notes on Ayers, Hollingwortli, Kitson and Miins-
terberg in the Bibliography, Chapter XII.



General Health

Personal Character

Home Influence

Associates

Rank in Scholarship

Best Branches

Inclination for any Special Line..

Did he Graduate

Time of Leaving or Graduation....
Additional Information...



Signed.



FORM No. 12. INQUIRY FORM USED BY A DEPARTMENT STORE

Back. The tabulated items facilitate the work of answering the inquiry.
For face, see page 96



REFERENCES

Thirteen of the thirty firms under consideration
(43.3 per cent) considered it advisable to follow up ref-
erences of former employers or other persons named
by applicants. As a rule, both superintendents and



98 HIRING THE WORKER

employment managers seemed to feel that unless the
applicant had been dishonest he was very likely to re-
ceive a fair recommendation from former employers.
For this reason they attached but slight importance to
the value of such references. Personal interviews or
telephone calls were regarded as more valuable. In
any case too much reliance on previous industrial rec-
ords is dangerous, as it frequently happens that a man
who has had an indifferent record or who has been a
complete failure in one plant proves himself entirely
capable in a new environment. The success that has
followed the policy of transfer of employees to other
departments within the organization is conclusive evi-
dence of the fallacy of selection based largely upon an
individual's work record in another firm.

Eeports from schools and colleges are likely to over-
emphasize the importance of academic standing and to
lose sight entirely of the personal fitness of the person
for the task or for the organization.

As the work of vocational guidance in schools de-
velops, and as better records are kept in employment
offices, the value of references will undoubtedly in-
crease. The Fourth Annual Report of the National
Association of Corporation Schools states:

The life history of an employee as time goes on proves
to be of the greatest service in many ways. Men are far
more careful when they know they are being systematically
and justly checked. Much waste in this way is prevented.
When it becomes known that each weakness is evident, a
wholesome, preventive check is established with reference
to many forms of waste, friction and injustice.

Among other things, these service records, developed by
a well trained employment staff, will contain much valuable
information regarding the different aptitudes of the em-
ployees. Hence such bureaus are capable of doing a great
deal by way of helping employees choose the right lines of



THE PROBLEM OF SELECTION



99



work. This is fundamental in an organization that is try-
ing to build up a stable, effective work force, and is absolutely
essential to efficiency in the case of youth. These records aid
greatly in free, wise choice of vocation.

Forms Nos. 10, 11, and 12 are used by a large de-
partment store for following up references. They are
multigraphed on the firm's letter head.



ADVANCE NOTICE OF POSITIONS

It seems important to point out in conclusion that
every scheme of selection fails of its intended object
unless the employment department can have advance
notice of positions to be filled. Cases are certain to
arise where hurry calls for additional help must be
sent in, but the majority of such requisitions can be
avoided, especially in small establishments, by sys-
tematic effort. Planning for labor and estimates of
the number and kind of new employees ought to be
just as well provided for as are estimates of raw ma-
terials, new machinery, or building repairs. Having
analyzed the tasks and with adequate data at hand
concerning the number and type of workmen needed,
the employment manager can proceed to develop the
proper sources of supply and build up his prospect
files. Only after having eliminated the greater por-
tion of its hasty and haphazard selections, promo-
tions, and transfers can the department begin to rely
upon the interpretation of its records for the choice of
successful methods.



100



HIRING THE WORKER



FOREMAN'S EFFICIENCY RATING
FOR YEAR 1916

Name Works


Position . Dept


Annual Salary, $ ... Maximum Bonus $


POINTS


Maxi-
mum


Recom-
mended


1. Production Costs 15




2. Quality of Product 10




3. Production Output 10




4. Reduction of Spoiled Work 10




5. Saving of Material and Supplies 8




6. Suggestions for Improvements 8




7. Organization 7




8. Maintenance of Discipline 7




9. Services Rendered Other Departments 5




10. Stability of Labor 5




11. Condition of Department and Equipment 5




12. Planning and Close Attention to Schedules and Orders 5




13. Reduction of Serious and Lost Time Accidents 5




14. Efficiency of Nonproductive Men




100




Allotment % of Maximum $





Remarks








Approved:
Date 191




Superintendent


This Space Reserved fjr General Office











FORM No. 13. FOREMAN'S EFFICIENCY RATING.

USED AS BASIS FOR ALLOTMENT OP BONUS FOR EACH FOREMAN.

Original on thin white paper, 8|" x 11".






CHAPTER VII

INITIATING WORKERS INTO THEIR TASKS,

AND THE GENERAL EDUCATION

OF EMPLOYEES

FREDERICK W. TAYLOR'S requirements for the
selection and training of workers are clearly
stated and theoretically sound, but only in rare in-
stances has much been done toward realizing his ideal.
He demands that the firm employ "a corps of compe-
tent specialists whose duty it is to instruct and train
the workers and to assist them whenever difficulties
arise in connection with the work," and to set for
each man "the highest task for which his physical and
intellectual capacity fits him." He requires that the
workmen learn and perform "not one merely but sev-
eral operations or tasks" and that opportunities be
operied up for the advancement and promotion of work-
ers. If followed out, his plan would constitute a very
"practical system of vocational guidance and train-
ing" and would, as he expects, while accepting "the
modern tendency toward machine production, . . .
mitigate its possible evil effects upon the workers."

Mr. Hoxie in a recent report to the United States
Commission on Industrial Relations, after investigat-
ing thirty-five factories under scientific management,
says :

101



102 HIRING THE WORKER

Nowhere did the writer discover any scientific or adequate
methods for adapting the worker to the task. Scientific man-
agement shops, in general, depend upon nothing in the way
of general occupational adaptation of the workers except
the ordinary trial and error method. The employment of
a special corps of instructors is by no means universal in
scientific management shops. In some, no instructors were
found, but new workmen were forced to depend entirely
upon fellow workers and old line foremen for any assistance
and training which they might receive. Where special in-
struction was given, it ranged all the way from careful initial
training and, thereafter, friendly supervision, suggestion and
assistance, down to a few hours or moments of preliminary
teaching and observation, after which the worker was thrown
upon his own resources.



Mr. Hoxie's description will answer very well for
many of the firms visited in the vicinity of Boston.
Sixteen of the group of thirty under consideration
leave all instruction to the foremen and their assist-
ants. The following is a typical reply: "New em-
ployees are assigned to departments and report direct
to foremen who arrange for their time cards, assign
them to lockers, and show them the work to be done. ' '

Only one superintendent of the sixteen claims that
he regards instruction as the chief function of his fore-
men. In this instance the foremen are selected because
they know the work thoroughly and are able and will-
ing to teach others, rather than for their ability in se-
curing adequate output.

Eight superintendents say that experienced work-
men impart such information to new employees as will
enable them to enter upon their duties. These work-
ers are not always selected upon the basis of teach-
ing ability, and usually devote only a small portion of
their time to instruction.

In one factory the duties of each new employee are



PLACING AND TRAINING THE WORKER 103

outlined for him by the employment manager. He is
then expected to acquire the actual methods of pro-
cedure from the person in charge of the work or from
an assistant. There was no intimation that assist-
ants or foremen were especially chosen or were well
fitted for the work of instruction. In striking contrast
with such haphazard methods, are the plans which
have been developed in organizations where educa-
tion is regarded as an important function of those
who control the general matters relative to personnel.
In many firms systematic educational work has been
conducted for years, but its fullest value has never
been realized until there was opportunity to check up
efforts in this direction with other important prob-
lems.

The highly functionalized and thoroughly effec-
tive employment department is capable of correlating
this work with other of its functions in many ways,
the most important of which will appear in the ex-
amples here noted.

Fourteen of the firms visited have special instruc-
tors or training schools for their employees. A large
publishing house that has developed a very complete
plan gives the following description of its educational
work:

Detailed instruction is given by a foreman or supervisor,
oral or written in accordance with the amount of detail
to be learned. There is an apprentice school for printers with
a well defined plan of promotion.

Three good sized rooms, well lighted, compose the quar-
ters of our instruction division. Most of our work at the
present time is done departmentally. The classes conducted
under our instruction division are purely voluntary. A
salaried teacher is in attendance who has a regular schedule
of lessons. Classes in stenography and touch typewriting
are very popular. Also, under the auspices of the Country



104 HIEING THE WORKER

Club, classes are held in English, commercial geography,
business mathematics, penmanship and spelling. (The Coun-
try Club is an organization maintained and managed by em-
ployees of this publishing company.) Inasmuch as these
classes are voluntary, it is particularly gratifying that their
popularity is increasing all the time.

About eighty of the boys in our employ are under six-
teen years of age, and are on this account subject to the new
child-labor law, which requires them to attend school eight
hours a week. We have co-operated with the school authori-
ties by placing one of the rooms in the instruction division
at their disposal. Here a teacher furnished by the school
board holds classes three days a week.

Our apprentice school for compositors is rather a unique
organization, conducted under the direction of the manager
of our composition division where the type is set for all our
publications. The school is maintained under competent
instructors, and here, through a course of five years, boys
are developed from raw beginners into finished compositors.
It is here we recruit our compositors when they are needed.
The compensation paid the boys during their five-year course
increases every six months.

"We consider it to be the duty of our employment depart-
ment to develop the efficiency of the workers, directly or in-
directly, and to bring about a condition in which the indi-
vidual employee will render as nearly as possible 100 per
cent to his employer. The word "employ," therefore, should
signify the care and development of the employees rather
than the mere act of engaging workers and placing them
on the payroll.

A manufacturer of men's clothing reports as fol-
lows:

Their responsibilities and the responsibilities of the or-
ganization to them are explained to new employees by the
employment head. They are then turned over to the super-
intendent of instruction and a trained instructor given charge
until satisfactory progress has been made. All matters of
time keeping and payroll are explained to them by the head
of the payroll department. New employees also become
acquainted with the manager and other heads whom they
may have contact with.




PLACING AND TRAINING THE WORKER 105

Three manufacturers employing a large number of
women and girls were visited who maintain separate
training departments. New employees are sent to this
department for preliminary instruction, or are placed
in charge of an instructor in the department to which
they are assigned. One firm in this group has a care-
fully planned series of simple tasks upon which em-
ployees are tried out when they first enter the organi-
zation. A point is made of starting women and girls
on slower machines, and only those who show good
control are advanced to more rapid work.

A large firm manufacturing boxes, tags, and printed
specialties has in operation a very satisfactory scheme
of training. By maintaining a division separate from
the actual manufacturing departments, foremen are
relieved of the trouble and expense of breaking in new
help, and the necessary information and skill are ac-
quired in less time than it would otherwise take. A
very important function of the instructors is to pass
upon the vocational aptitudes of their students. Some
one hundred and fifty different occupations are repre-
sented in the factory, many of them found only in this
industry, that may be undertaken by persons who were
entirely unskilled at the time of entering the organiza-
tion. With so many possible channels for endeavor
open, careful training and later follow up in the manu-
facturing department offers the best method of wise
placement.

The employment department of this firm follows up
the new employee quite closely for the first three
months. If he proves to be successful on the job, his
wages are advanced in due time. Monthly recommen-
dations for advance in pay are received from depart-
ment heads. These are checked up with a record of



106 HIRING THE WORKER

each employee, on file in the employment office, which
shows his name, age, rate of wages, length of service,
number of suggestions, number of errors, and previous
record in the training school. The pay recommenda-
tion takes effect upon approval by the employment de-
partment and the works manager. If it is not ap-
proved by the employment manager, reasons for re-
fusing an advance are sent to the works manager, who
does not give his final approval without additional in-
vestigation and further proof from the department
head of the worthiness of the case.

The General Electric Company maintains appren-
tice schools at each of its extensive works in West
Lynn, Mass., Pittsfield, Mass., Erie, Penn., and Fort
Wayne, Ind.

For young men sixteen years of age and over who
have a grammar-school education or its equivalent,
courses are open which prepare for the following kinds
of work: 1, Machinist, tool and die maker (four-year
course). 2, Pattern maker (four-year course). 3,
Moulder (two-year course).

Practical training in the shop is correlated with in-
struction in the apprentice school in mathematics, ele-
ments of mechanics, power transmission, strength of
materials, chemistry of common metals, business Eng-
lish, industrial history, and mechanical and free-hand
drawing related to the course followed. Elementary
electricity is included in the list for machinists.

High-school graduates may take any of the above
courses, the period of apprenticeship being shortened
for them from one to two years, or any of the fol-
lowing: 1, Draftsman (three-year course). 2, Elec-
trical tester (three-year course). 3, Technical clerk
and cost accounting (two-year course).



PLACING AND TRAINING THE WORKER



107



Grammar-school applicants are passed upon by the
superintendent of the apprentice school, while high-
school graduates are admitted by a committee of five
composed of the general superintendent, the super-
visor of instruction, the superintendent of the test-
ing force, and a machinist. All applicants must pass
a physical examination.

After a trial period of about two months, during
which time they receive a regular compensation, ac-
ceptable candidates may sign the standard apprentice
agreement which outlines the length of the course, rate
of pay, etc. Each apprentice receives from $50 to
$100 cash bonus when he satisfactorily completes his
course, the amount depending upon the nature and
length of the course. Graduated apprentices are en-
couraged to remain with the company so far as em-
ployment conditions admit.

In this school the shop work is conducted in a large,
well equipped machine shop set aside for the purpose.
Under the guidance of a corps of special instructors,
the boys are put at once on commercial work. Safety,
the elimination of wasteful methods, and the gaining
of speed and accuracy, are emphasized. As a rule the
boys work in pairs, the one who has been on the job
for some time helping an untrained apprentice until
the latter gains sufficient skill and confidence to take
on a third pupil and allow his teacher to progress to
another machine or a different kind of work.

For high-school graduates, such a system of train-
ing offers many advantages. A large company can
afford to maintain an equipment and a corps of in-
structors far in advance of that within the reach of
any public school system at present. Class-room work
is vitalized by immediate application to shop practice,



108 HIEING THE WORKER

and the boy's interest is further held by the fact that
he feels himself a factor in the company's productive
forces. For boys who have had only grammar-school
training, there are certain decided disadvantages. The
corporation school is frankly managed to increase pro-
duction, and until we have a new point of view con-
trolling the supervisor of personnel and influencing
apprentice-school policies, there are sure to be grave
discrepancies in the training offered. A committee re-
porting to the National Association of Corporation
Schools at their third annual convention in 1915 listed
the subjects taught, or believed suitable, by twenty
firms conducting apprentice schools. A classified list
of the subjects w r hich they name reveals not only a
wide diversity of practice but a serious lack of in-
struction in certain directions. See page 109.

Doubtless such topics as safety and hygiene were
dealt with in other ways by these companies to their
entire satisfaction. It is impossible, however, to avoid
the implications of the relatively small numbers offer-
ing courses in history, civics, shop economics, Eng-
lish, and elementary science. It is only fair to assume
that a majority of the firms in this list hired a con-
siderable number of foreigners who were not familiar
with the English language, and that many of their
employees had enjoyed no more than a common-school
education. Where such conditions obtain, a further
development of opportunity by the local public schools
appears to be the only adequate solution offered.

A small number of firms have made night-school at-
tendance compulsory for all their non-English-speak-
ing employees. Others have announced a preferential
policy with respect to night-school students by which
those who were in regular attendance were to be con-




PLACING AND TRAINING THE WORKER



109



TABLE I



SUBJECTS OP INSTRUCTION OFFERED OR RECOMMENDED BY
TWENTY CORPORATION SCHOOLS. 1915



(Adapted from the Report of the National Association of
Corporation Schools, 1915)



Subject



Number

of schools

offering it



Mechanical Drawing 14

Applied Arithmetic 10

Algebra (usually only

formulas) 7

Applied Geometry 6

Applied Mechanics 6

Shop Mathematics 6

Business English 6

Physics 5

Freehand Drawing 5

Shop Methods 4

Trade Mathematics 4

Civics 3

Trigonometry 2



Subject



Number

of schools

offering it



History 2

Spelling 2

Shop Spelling 2

Elementary Electricity. . . 2
Reading Working Draw-
ings 2

Economics . . 2



Hygiene ,

Reading

Business Forms
Elementary Science .
Strength of Materials,
Industrial History. .
Shop Organization..,
Safety



TABLE II



NATURE OF BUSINESS OF ABOVE FIRMS



Manufacturing Iron and Steel Goods, Machinery and Auto-
mobiles 9

Printers and Publishers 3

Railroads 3

Specialty Manufacturing - 2

Marine Construction 2

Chemical Manufacturing 1



110 HIRING THE WORKER

sidered first in promotion and held longest in case of
lay-offs.

The Cadillac Company of Detroit has worked on a
program intended to popularize the idea of attending
English classes. The leaders were interested first,
and they in turn worked with the rank and file in the
shops.

It is often possible for firms to co-operate with the
local board of education in offering courses in English
and citizenship. The expense of text books and in-
structors is paid from public-school funds and the
company furnishes a room, heat, light, etc. Classes are
frequently conducted by the Y. M. C. A. and other or-
ganizations under a similar agreement.

A bonus system by which one or two cents an hour
increase in wages is paid to foreigners attending night
school, the encouragement of naturalization, and Eng-
lish classes conducted within the shop at the expense
of the company, are other plans that are being tried
by large corporations.

Experience has everywhere demonstrated the futil-
ity of evening classes for minors. No principle of
industrial education is more firmly established than
that which demands time during working hours for the
instruction of young workers. Something can be ac-
complished for adults through evening classes and
correspondence courses, but for the vast majority of
workers these means are ineffective. The strongest
argument against them based on the likelihood of re-
duced physical vitality, rarely offset by higher effi-
ciency, ought to come from those interested in pro-
duction.

Where the factory is a large one and has in its em-
ploy a very considerable percentage of the population






PLACING AND TRAINING THE WORKER



111



of a city or well defined district, much can be accom-
plished through co-operation with the public schools.
The following item taken from ' ' The Fore River Log, ' '
a journal published by the employees of the Fore Eiver
Ship Building Corporation, shows the interest taken
by that firm in the advantages offered by the public
schools.

Free instruction is offered ambitious men in the various
trade subjects, for which classes will be established as in the
past year under the direction of the superintendent of schools.
The classes will be held in the Quincy Industrial School on
Phipps Street, and if the registration is sufficient will be of-
fered instruction in the following subjects :

Drawing and blueprint reading for machinists.
Drawing and blueprint reading for plumbers.
Drawing and blueprint reading for electricians.
Sheet-metal design.
Mold-loft work.
Naval architecture.
Monumental design.
Carpentry and stair building.
Shop mathematics.

Other courses will be established to meet the demands of
applicants. The courses are open to all employees of this
company, young or old, and it is not required that they shall
be residents of the city of Quincy.

The Fore Eiver Ship Building Corporation supple-
ments this instruction by courses in an apprentice
school within the plant.

As an example of the willingness of a State board of
education to co-operate in such matters, the educa-
tional survey of the city of Framingham, Mass., re-
cently undertaken for the purpose of outlining new
school policies which will consider the needs of the
Dennison Manufacturing Company, can be cited. A
representative of the board of education conducted an



112 HIKING THE WORKEE

exhaustive investigation and made recommendations
for numerous educational readjustments intended to
meet the needs of the large number of young people
who annually enter the employ of this firm.

The New England Shoe and Leather Association ar-
ranged to co-operate with the Boston School Commit-
tee in 1910 in establishing the first shoe and leather
continuation school in the United States. The report
of the Committee on Industrial Education of the Na-
tional Boot and Shoe Manufacturers' Association,
given at the annual convention in New York on Janu-
ary 13, 1915, in reference to this school, reads in part :

The first class brought together numbered thirty-nine pu-
pils, representing twenty-nine different concerns in various
branches of the allied shoe and leather trade, mainly boys and
young men between the ages of fifteen and twenty, employed
in offices, warehouses, manufacturing departments, etc., of
the shoe factories, tanneries, and other establishments. Since
that time there have been graduated from this school more
than two hundred pupils, each of whom has received an of-
ficial certificate of his technical ability, and in this way there
has been laid a splendid foundation for the larger scheme
of industrial education that is now being considered by the
Association.

The working method of this Boston Shoe and Leather Con-
tinuation School Class, briefly, is the holding of a series of
two-hour sessions on two afternoons a week, covering a period
of twelve weeks.

The school committee provides the class room and the in-
structor, who, of course, has specialized in this particular
branch of industry ; and the Association and the trade it rep-
resents co-operate by furnishing competent lecturers, and
other experts, who from time to time give the pupils formal
or informal talks on the subjects in which they are experts.

Incidentally various trips of inspection are made to nearby
shoe factories, tanneries, and other plants, the result being
that the boys not only acquire a broad idea of the funda-
mentals of tanning and shoemaking, together with its rami-
fications of foreign-trade extension, advertising, and general



PLACING AND TRAINING THE WOEKEE 113

efficiency, but, what perhaps is as important as anything,
they graduate with an interest and enthusiasm for their
chosen vocation that will mean more than half the battle for
them in their future life.

There is no charge for tuition in the Boston Shoe and
Leather Continuation School, except that non-resident pupils
are charged a nominal fee, so that the only expense entailed
is the four hours or so per week of the pupil's time that the
employer donates to the good cause.

Although this continuation school has rendered ex-
cellent service, it by no means takes the place of other
instruction which ought to be offered in the factory.
The only large shoe concern visited has an apprentice
school of its own within the plant.

The city of Beverly, Mass., 'offers an important in-
stance of the ' ' part-time ' ' plan for the education of
machinists. In 1909, following the report of a commis-
sion on industrial education which carefully examined
the leading industries of the vicinity with a view to
training for the more important kinds of work, a State-
aided industrial school was established in co-operation
with the United Shoe Machinery Company. The
school now gives opportunity for the enrollment of
about fifty boys. They work in two divisions, alternat-
ing each week between school and shop work. Each
division is assigned to a machinist instructor who con-
tinues with it in both school room and shop. In this
respect the school is unique among industrial schools,
since the arrangement insures the retention of the
practical viewpoint of the shop by the instructors and
provides a very close correlation between factory and
school room.

The factory provides and equips the workshop and
a demonstration room in which the construction and
operation of machines is taught, and pays for the time



114 HIEING THE WORKER

of the instructors in the factory. It credits the school
with all completed work put out by the shop that passes
inspection. Half of this amount goes to the boys on
a piece-work basis, and the other half is placed in the
maintenance fund.

While shop work is emphasized, the training is defi-
nitely planned to fit for useful citizenship. The boys
study mechanical drawing, machine designing, shop
mathematics, electricity as applied to machinery,
chemistry of materials, business and social forms and
practices, hygiene, and social and civic duties. In the
shop the allotment of time on the various machines is
such as to develop all-round machinists.

None of the boys are indentured as apprentices, but
those who complete the course successfully are given a
chance to enter the employ of the United Shoe Ma-
chinery Company on full time at regular piece-work
rates. The full course may be completed in two years
or less, if the boy is of unusual ability, or as much
more time may be taken as is necessary.

Management of the school is vested in a board of
trustees consisting of the mayor of Beverly, five mem-
bers of the Beverly school committee, and a represen-
tative of the United Shoe Machinery Company. This
representative is an official who is in close touch with
the employment department. Their acts are subject
to the approval of the State board of education. There
is also an advisory board consisting of a member of
the United Shoe Machinery Company, one foreman,
one journeyman, one outside mechanic, and a citizen.

Eesults have been highly satisfactory to all parties
concerned. In the first five years, the city of Beverly
invested $14000 in equipment and maintenance. In
1914, one year only out of the five, students attending






PLACING AND TRAINING THE WORKER 115

the school earned the equivalent of an annual interest
of 21 per cent on this amount.

High testimony to the worth of the school is to be
found in the fact that more than two-thirds of the
membership come from homes where the father works
in the factory. It is also significant to note that, al-
though it is not an entrance requirement, the large
majority of applicants are high-school graduates.

Some of the most advanced ideas on education and
many of the best conceptions of the relationships
which should obtain between the employment depart-
ment and the department in charge of instruction
where these two are separate are incorporated in the
methods of a well known department store in Boston.

The training of all sales people is in the hands of
the educational department. Other junior positions
are handled by the executive in the department, and
executives are initiated into the system by the em-
ployment supervisor.

New additions to the sales force are turned over to
the education department where they are instructed in
the rules of the store and its general policies before
beginning their work. Each employee receives copies
of booklets containing the store rules and a sketch
of the organizations supported by employees. Regu-
lar instruction of the sales force is carried on through
executives and floor superintendents. In the educa-
tional department, efficiency bulletins are formulated
from time to time on questions of policy or methods
which apply to all departments. Material for the bul-
letins is drawn from executives, from the research
department, and from suggestions from employees.

At 8:30 in the morning, each floor superintendent
gathers the members of his department together for



116 HIRING THE WORKER

a conference on the subject matter of the bulletin.
Whenever it is possible, the director or a repre-
sentative of the education department attends these
meetings, taking part in the discussion and offering
suggestions. The following are titles chosen from the
list of recent bulletins :

"Merchandise Calls": "Service to Employees":
' ' Talk Merchandise, Not Price " : " Summer Visitors ' ' :
"New System of Special Orders": "Promises": "Er-
rors in System": "Educating the Public": "Working
Together". An example of such a bulletin is printed
on page 119 A (Efficiency Bulletin No. 230, April 10,
1916). The members of the department are expected
to sign the bulletin before it is returned to the educa-
tion department. By checking up occasionally with
the list of employees, the education department keeps
tab on attendance at these conferences and can look up
absentees.

By an arrangement with the Boston school commit-
tee, branch classes of the continuation school have
been held in the store for several years. Attendance
is entirely vpluntary, since all employees are over
sixteen years of age, the compulsory attendance limit.
The city furnishes an instructor and the store pro-
vides a room and the necessary equipment. Courses
are offered in textiles and salesmanship, meeting for
two hours a day, four mornings a week.

In addition to these courses, a group of those who
have been recently transferred to the sales force is
formed every few months for an elementary course in
the coloring and design of textiles. For more ma-
ture salespeople, a three-months' course giving a very
complete study of textiles is offered. Attendance on
this course is entirely voluntary.




p:



PLACING AND TRAINING THE WORKER 117

EFFICIENCY BULLETIN
No. 230 April 10, 1916

[SIGN IN MARGIN]

WORKING UNDER PRESSURE

When business is as good as it has been recently every-
one in the store is naturally working under pressure. We
find that we have our hands full in trying to see that cus-
tomers have the proper service. Selling seems so important
that we are very likely to neglect other things.

During these very busy days, more than at any other time,
it is important that the other parts of our work shall have
proper attention. Customers must always come first but by
giving a little extra thought to the rest of our work we shall
be able to accomplish a great deal and save time and effort in
the long run.

STOCK KEEPING

One of the great dangers in a rush time is that the stock
will get into very bad condition. It is impossible to prevent
this altogether but if every one in the department is trying
to keep the merchandise in good condition the damage will
be much less than if we put all the responsibility on one or
two people. We cannot neglect customers to put away stock
but very often we can put one piece of merchandise back
in place as we take another out. It is better to KEEP our
department in condition as we go along than to stop and
PUT it in order once or twice a day. Attention to stock-
keeping will save time and trouble. It will also keep our
merchandise in salable condition. We shall not lose sales
because our stock is in such bad condition that it loses all
attraction for customers or because we cannot find it quickly
and easily. Even where there are a number of stock people
in a department the salespeople must do their part if things
are to run as smoothly as they should.

SELLING THE RIGHT THING

Let us remember, too, that at this time good salesmanship
counts for more than when it is quieter. THINGS THAT
ARE NOT PROPERLY SOLD WILL COME BACK. Let
us avoid every possible return. If we do so, we shall save



118 HIEING THE WOEKEE

time, our merchandise will be in better condition, and we
shall have more complete lines to show. Even if it takes a
little longer to satisfy a customer it is worth while to give
';he extra time rather than have her come back later for a
return or exchange.

SERVICE

If we are selling under pressure, customers are also buy-
ing under pressure. They will appreciate good service now
more than at quieter times, and will go to the store where
they can get it. Any one can give good service when he has
plenty of time. The really worth-while people are the ones
who can do their best under such pressure as we shall have
during the next few weeks.

During the winter of 1915-1916 a course of fifteen
evening lectures, open to all members of the organi-
zation, were given on economic theory and special
problems of merchandising and advertising. The lec-
tures were given by Harvard professors and by store
managers, and although a small fee was required, the
attendance was gratifyingly large for the full course.

On the basis of findings by the research department,
new educational work is being undertaken. One per-
son has now been delegated to the task of correlating
the efforts of the employment, education, and research
departments. This experiment is comparatively new,
but the results so far attained are very promising
indeed.

By filing in the employment department the records
of students in the different classes, they become a part
of the efficiency rating of each employee.

The New York Edison Company has carried to a
high point of development this matter of correlating
education with efficiency rating. We quote from an
article by Arthur Williams of this company appearing
in the Annals for May, 1916 :



PLACING AND TRAINING THE WORKER 119

The Commercial Schools are conducted within the Com-
pany's time and at the expense of the Company. Enrollment
and attendance are compulsory. Classes meet weekly, and
every alternate week there are written examinations based
upon questions distributed before the lectures. At the end
of the year the student must have a rating of 75 per cent to
pass, or falling below that point he must re-enroll and begin
all over again. If he gets what is called the "C" rating,
which is between 75 and 82 per cent, a special course of
instruction is taken through the summer, with a later ex-
amination in the autumn, when it is expected that the student
will have gained at least a "B" or possibly an "A," the
highest rating the company school gives.

If he still has no higher than the "C" rating, so far .as
the school courses are concerned, the results are considered
of an unsatisfactory nature. But the student has an op-
portunity at any time, through a course of study and exami-
nations, to improve his rating and this opportunity continues
so long as he is in the employ of the company. The results
of the school course become a permanent part of the student 's
record, influencing his position and salary to a certain ex-
tent, but not in any final sense. There have been instances
in which the school record is exceedingly poor, but the service
of the employee as a whole of a very high and valuable
order, and this after all is the end desired.

Of the more general means of training such as li-
braries, trips to other firms, employees 7 clubs and asso-
ciations, bulletins, periodicals, lectures, conferences,
etc., very little need be said here. Policies in such
matters will depend largely upon the requirements of
the individual organization. Needless to say, the pro-
gressive employment manager will be keenly alive to
possibilities in all these lines and will readily adapt
his methods to fit the needs of the working force.

Provision for training executives is necessarily a
vital part of every complete system of industrial edu-
cation. The plans outlined in this chapter tend as a
rule to develop good workmen, but they cannot be
expected to produce leaders automatically. All the



120



HIRING THE WORKER



firms in Group II (page 32) and with few exceptions
those in Group I in replying to question 9, part IV of
the questionnaire, "How are the various grades of
executive and supervisory positions filled!" indicated
that they depended almost wholly upon promotion
from the ranks. Only a. relatively small number, how-
ever, were paying particular attention to the problem
of training executives. The more important elements
in the educational schemes of these firms are alluded
to elsewhere. The following are noteworthy efforts
to provide adequate training for leadership in various
parts of the United States :

1. The '"Three Position Plan of Promotion/' out-
lined by Frank B. and Lillian M. Gilbreth and intro-
duced by them in a number of establishments, "con-
siders each man as occupying three positions in the
organization, and considers these three positions as
constantly changing in an upward spiral, as the man
is promoted." Each worker teaches a man in the posi-
tion he has just left and is at the same time being
instructed in the duties of a third worker who occu-
pies the position next in line of advancement. Each
employee is thus at the same time an instructor, a
worker, and a student. The time that he must take to
move to the next point in the spiral depends upon
his ability to develop efficiency in his pupil and his
own aptitude in learning the duties of the next higher
position.

2. The "Flying Squadron" plan used by the Good-
year Tire and Eubber Co., trains picked men to
fill positions as foremen and executives. Courses are
offered in mechanical drawing, economics, English,
shop management and rubber manufacture. Opportu-
nity is given to study various parts of the plant.



PLACING AND TRAINING THE WORKER 121

3. Wm. Filene's Sons Co., in their large department
store in Boston, allow promising college men to spend
a short time in each department in order to become
familiar with the work of the whole organization.
Special opportunities are given for instruction by the
education department for those who elect snch a plan.

4. The understudy system has been in use for many
years by railroads. Each executive selects one or
more individuals who are trained to succeed him. This
plan has recently been adopted by the Fore River Ship-
building Corporation in all its departments.

5. Special Y. M. C. A. classes for foremen have been
formed in Cambridge, Mass. The University of Min-
nesota offers evening classes for foremen and superin-
tendents. The Bradford Durfee Textile School at
Fall Eiver, Mass., has an evening class for superin-
tendents and foremen in the selection of raw material
and cost computations.

6. The American Telephone and Telegraph Co.
maintains a normal school for the training of teachers
for their telephone operator schools, and for the prepa-
ration of courses and lesson plans.

One of the great benefits to be derived from voca-
tional education which is so planned as to give train-
ing for young people who are engaged in employment
of any kind is the possibility of further selection of
workers according to their adaptability to the task in
question. Where efficient teachers follow the young
worker through his period of training, much can be
accomplished by way of discovering special abilities
or aptitudes and the final placement of the employee
can be determined with much better satisfaction to all
concerned.



122 HIEING THE WORKER

The first and most important steps necessary to the
establishment of a system of training which will con-
form to the principles set forth in this chapter may be
briefly summarized as follows :

1. A complete analysis of the various trades for
which workers must be secured. This will include a
study of each department of the organization to deter-
mine the exact nature of the tasks developing upon
each individual. Many of the recently published edu-
cational surveys, such as those made in Cleveland,
Eichmond, or Minneapolis, as well as the studies of the
trades involved in the shipbuilding industry made by
the Federal Board for Vocational Education, contain
material of this kind.

2. The development of training courses based upon
the conditions revealed by the analysis described above.

3. Cooperation with local, state, and federal agen-
cies to eliminate duplication of educational offerings.
The passage of the Smith-Hughes Bill will doubtless
give rise to much new effort on the part of public agen-
cies, and industry should stand ready to take its proper
share in the evolution of better methods.

4. The selection of instructors and supervisors who
are familiar with the trade requirements of the con-
cern. If persons of the right training cannot be found
who possess this knowledge, arrangements- should be
made for instructors to spend some time in immediate
contact with the several tasks from which their stu-
dents come.



CHAPTER VIII
TEANSFEE, PEOMOTION AND DISOHAEGE

ANSWEES to several of the more important ques-
tions relative to promotion and discharge are
given on the chart facing page 32.

Other significant replies to questions bearing upon
these subjects are given in full at the end of this chap-
ter. While these replies will serve to show the gen-
eral tendencies of the firms studied, there are certain
important features that may be briefly considered.

The first logical step in preparing machinery for
caring for promotions would appear to be the prepara-
tion of an outline or plan of the organization. This
should be based upon the job analyses and a careful
study of the relation of the several departments, and
should contain a classified list of positions, so arranged
as to show their relative desirability, degree of respon-
sibility, and the training required for each. Possible
lines of promotion should be mapped out so that it will
be possible for the employee to prepare himself with
the help of the education department for some definite
line of advancement.

Without a centralized employment department, it is
not probable that adequate records will be kept either
of the employee's efficiency rating or of his transfers
from one department to another. Under a well or-

123



124 HIRING THE WORKER

ganized plan, vacancies will be filled by promotion, and
to do this justly demands complete service records for
each employee. Foremen and department heads are
often consulted in determining whether an individual
shall be transferred or promoted, and they usually con-
tribute a judgment of his efficiency ; but final authority
in transfer and promotion, and to a less extent in cases
of discharge, is coming more and more to be placed
in the hands of the employment department.

The replies to Question 5, Part IV of the question-
naire, suggest various methods of determining the em-
ployee's efficiency rating. Transfers and promotions
are based upon these points :

1. Personal visits to the several departments by
the employment manager or his representative, thus
keeping in close touch with individual workers.

2. Eecords of piece work and reports of sales.

3. Eecord of errors and material wasted.

4. Attendance record.

5. Performance in comparison with a standard
set by time studies and job analysis.

6. Reports from foremen and department heads
which rate individuals on such points as adaptation
to work, training, promptness, accuracy, co-opera-
tion, attitude toward firm or toward work, etc.

7. Medical examination.

8. Suggestions for improvement offered.

Opinion is still divided as to the wisdom of giving
the employment department complete control of dis-
charge. Of the nineteen significant replies received
to the question, "What control, in your opinion, of dis-
cipline and discharge by the employment manager is






125

advisable ?" fourteen (73.6 per cent) were in favor of
complete control by the employment department. Dis-
charge is undeniably greatly lessened by giving the
employment department authority to investigate each
case. In this connection it is well to note that wherever
cases of voluntary leaving have been carefully looked
up, considerable reduction in the turn-over has re-
sulted. To make this investigation effective, the em-
ployee is usually forced to get the approval of the em-
ployment department to his discharge slip before his
last pay can be drawn. Under this plan employees are
necessarily kept from three to five days in arrears on
their pay in order to prevent leaving on pay day.

The loss of valuable employees can frequently be
saved to the company by transfer to some other de-
partment. Possible grounds for transfer are:

1. Personal feeling between the foreman or de-
partment head and an employee.

2. Better qualifications for some other task.

3. Health conditions may necessitate a change.

4. Eequests for transfers come from employees
who have fitted themselves for some different line
of work.

5. Certain tasks become irksome and dissatis-
faction is avoided by occasional changes.

The following quotations from replies to the ques-
tionnaire include all of the significant statements deal-
ing with these subjects.

Besides offering practical suggestions, they give a
fair idea of the general trend of practice.

It should be borne in mind that Nos. 1 to 12 are firms
without distinct employment departments.



126 HIRING THE WORKER



QUOTATIONS FROM REPLIES TO THE QUESTIONNAIRE

Part III. Question 7. "What follow-up system is
there by which the employment department keeps in
touch with employees and their tasks!"

No. 1. No formal system.

No. 2. None except foremen's reports.

No. 3. Foremen in each department observe the work of
each employee under their immediate supervision.

No. 5. Close personal touch with all employees is the most
important means. A card index is kept of each man's record.

No. 6. Superintendent keeps in personal touch with men.

No. 7. None.

No. 8. In general, hiring and follow-up is done by fore-
men.

No. 9. Superintendent makes daily visits to factory.
Knows all his men personally. There is no formal rating by
foremen or other persons.

No. 10. The superintendent relies on his foremen entirely
to get work done. Reports from customers determine how
well this is done. The superintendent knows the men only
in a general way, and believes that since the foremen are
responsible for the work, they should be allowed to say who
shall do it.

No. 11. Depend almost wholly on file giving the amount
of sales. Little dependence is placed in the reports of de-
partment heads.

No. 13. Every employee's quarterly earnings kept by
employment bureau. Bonus charts are kept by each de-
partment. Frequent consultation with foremen.

No. 15. All new employees are followed up closely for
the first three months. The employment department keeps
on file a record of each employee's wages, errors, suggestions,
and progress in the training department. The employment
manager makes a point of seeing each new employee two or
three times during the first few months. Reports from de-
partment heads are also secured.

No. 16. Twice a year judgments of the efficiency of every
individual in our employ are made under the direction of
the employment department by the executives in direct con-
trol of each individual. Every individual is considered for
increase semi-annually.



TRANSFER, PROMOTION .AND DISCHARGE 127

No. 17. New employees are not only listed, but asked to
call at the employment and service department at the close
of work. A special follow-up card is kept in the payroll de-
partment to denote progress on piece work. These are open
to the employment and service department, but those that
are not satisfactory are brought to their attention, as well
as the slightest expression of dissatisfaction on the part of
new employees as well as old. The names of all new em-
ployees are also put in a tickler and brought to the attention
of the employment and service department over a long period
of time. Besides this there is a general contact with the
working force in the service department. (For a sample of
the follow-up card in use see form No. 14, page 128.)

No. 18. Report on employee's blank. (See form No. 15,
page 129.) Frequent talks with foremen.

No. 19. By personal contact. Employment manager is in
the works three-fourths of his time.

No. 20. Foremen report to employment manager, using
form No. 16, page 130.

No. 21. Personal observation, interviews, and periodical
reports from department heads.

No. 22. Individual records of work are kept in some
departments.

No. 23. A personal efficiency record is taken twice a
year on the following qualifications : Quantity of work ; qual-
ity of work; executive ability; originality; adaptability;
habits; attendance.

No. 24. See Employee 's History Card, Form No. 17, page
132. Opportunities disclosed by this are made use of by
transfer as circumstances permit.

No. 25. Nearly all employees are on piece work, so wage
is an important means of judging. A quantitative record of
output and waste is kept of all time workers. We depend
on personal contact with all employees.

No. 26. Foremen report on individuals. Personal observa-
tion and study of employment department.

No. 27. Keep close touch with pay roll (nearly all em-
ployees are women on piece work). Depend on report of
foremen and general manager. Personal contact with em-
ployees.

Part III, Question No. 8. " What would be the ideal



128



HIKING THE WORKER



$

<J>

CV4
^

a

K:

^
*

Uj

1
*
<


OJ




































^




































S










^


)






















>'















^






















(


00












k




















*


\


N












\


\


\














,


I


)


,














\


\<












t


/




s


*
















\


)










/






<


,


















\


\






/








s


N,




















\


^'


/












N












^ -


-'


---


+*






^


K


N


^


^




^






























\


\^












V&


X


<M
M





CO


V>

S


5


(M





00



o


o


(M







TBANSLii-'Eii, niOJMOTlON AND DISCHARGE



129



REPORT ON


EMPLOYEE




Date. 191




No


Dept


Position


Positives shown


Negatives shown


Careful


Careless


Punctual


Tardy


Accurate


Inaccurate


Industrious


Lazy


Thoughtful


Forgetful


Obedient


Disobedient


Honest


Dishonest


Patient


Impatient


Sober


Intemperate


Reliable


Unreliable


Quiet


Agitative


With reference to this


employee, I recommend:


Lay off




Discharge




Transfer to dept


Position








To


Disposition by employment


dept.


To take effect


191
























Dept. head











FORM NO. 15. FOREMAN'S REPORT ON EMPLOYEE



130



HIRING THE WORKER



REPORT ON EMPLOYEE



Name

Dept

Date

SCORING

Interest in \vork

Personal App

Efficiency

Punctuality

Salesmanship

Ability for learning route

Eemarks

SIGNED ..



FORM NO. 16. FOREMAN'S REPORT TO EMPLOYMENT MANAGER

follow-up method from the employment manager's
view-point 1 ' '

No. 7. Daily record of each new employee for at least one
week.

No. 9. Personal contact with employees.




TRANSFER, PROMOTION AND DISCHARGE 131

No. 10. I do not believe in any fixed scale or efficiency
record not carefully checked up by personal contact with
employees.

No. 12. Periodical examination of records showing quan-
tity and quality of work and personal observation of de-
partments by superintendents.

No. 13. I believe any method must be made to fit specific
conditions, but have tried to get at it here by making the
foremen commit themselves as to the possibilities in a new
employee, and thus get them interested in doing follow-up
work. Frequent consultations are held with the foremen.

No. 14. Kated upon the quantity and quality of work
done.

No. 16. To have enough local representatives of the per-
sonnel division to have first-hand knowledge of the efficiency
of every individual.

No. 19. Personal contact with employees.

No. 20. Personal work as far as possible.

No. 23. Have the foremen send the employment depart-
ment: (1) A preliminary report of the workman; (2) An
efficiency record after two weeks' time; (3) An efficiency rec-
ord once a month thereafter.

Part IV, Question 2. "What, if any, promotion
scheme have you?"

No. 1. Vacancies are filled from employees when possible.
There is no regular system of promotion.

No. 3. None in particular, but reward good work by in-
crease in salary.

No. 5. A card record of each man is kept. Employees
are rated on the kind and amount of work done. All cards
are inspected by superintendent before pay day. There is a
careful follow-up of every employee from week to week. Pro-
motion is on merit alone.

No. 6. None. Not entirely desirable that men should care
to be promoted. Prefer to have them efficient and contented
at present job.

No. 7. None except merit.

No. 8. Promoted by foremen based on ability shown.

No. 9. Nothing definite. Higher positions always filled
from the ranks. Promotion is almost entirely by advance
in pay since changes are very few. There are many men



132



HIRING THE WORKER





..


























P




















q






1




















|
































j?
























c


s*
























12


























c


H
























c


- O
























C


bO


























'-+3



























i






















(^


*


pj




























1




















,


rj^


go


O




















c


02


H






















^


w
a


r/~)


^>




















fej


H


;


pU




















r *H





w


bC






















1-5


H


a

























2 1


1






















fl


PH -S


.






















S


w


f-








e

o














^0




p






















*J




1








o



















rS








fin














w




e 'S

o c








1








"S










CU 'a:

"S C C

w 5
I 2





'r:

.1


g

^


b


3






^
I








a

I
^


I 1 |

1 1 ^

tM \H S

00 .

^ p

a a


c

L>
P*

T:

*j

-

^^


1

1
a
., c.

F-


1

^ H

"^
^


s
s

0)

1
1


-(-

"e

1
H i

a:


fl"

j

PL,


J
t

a
<


1

u




H











TBANSFEK, PKOMOTION AND DISCHARGE 133

on the pay roll who have been in the service of the com-
pany for many years who could be replaced by younger men
at less salary, but it is not considered best for the company
to do so. The best results are secured from satisfied em-
ployees who know that their places are permanent during
good behavior.

No. 11. No effort in this direction. Advance is usually
in pay only.

No. 13. Special tests are given by the employment bureau.
The best men in every department are transfered to better
work if possible.

No. 14. There is a well defined scheme of promotion for
apprentices.

No. 15. All jobs are graded according to the range of
pay in each, and an effort made to move employees from
lower to higher positions. Outside help is not employed for
higher positions unless there is no employee available.

No. 17. As all operations are classified, steps for promo-
tion are very apparent. For a better job, preference is given
wherever possible to those who have a good record of quality
and production and spirit on the next lower class job. All
foremen, superintendents, clerks, etc., are recruited from the
ranks of regular workers. All workers and others can apply
for any definite work or advanced positions that they wish.
Applications are always accepted and considered.

No. 18. It rests with the foremen to give a man what
he is worth. Followed up by the employment office to see
that everyone gets a square deal.

No. 19. Not definitely outlined. Oldest in service are
promoted first except in cases of exceptional ability.

No. 22. Individual records are kept in a few cases. Other-
wise we depend on the judgment of foremen and superin-
tendent.

No. 23. There is no systematized method of promotion.
This is almost entirely the function of the superintendent.
We do, however, make it a plan to promote from the ranks
wherever possible.

No. 26. Based on merit. If deserving, the employee is
advanced every three months, 2y 2 cents per hour up to the
limit the job will pay.

Part IV, Question 3. "Are the opportunities for
advancement made known ? How ? ' '



134 HIRING THE WORKER

No. 1. No effort is made to show this. Most employees
judge for themselves from promotions of others.

No. 2. Only by the foremen.

No. 3. Not in advance. We make no promises until each
new employee has demonstrated his ability.

No. 4. Chiefly by example.

No. 5. This is done very carefully by a personal conversa-
tion at the time of employing a new man. Older employees
know what to expect by seeing others advanced.

No. 6. No.

No. 7. No.

No. 8. At time of hiring.

No. 9. No. The company is small and men are told that
they can expect wage increases from time to time.

No. 10. No.

No. 11. No.

No. 13. Consistent picking from the ranks to fill better
jobs gives the policy sufficient advertising. The bureau keeps
a record of men wanting transfer, the results of tests, etc.

No. 14. A general explanation is made at the time of
employment. Within a few weeks after being placed on the
pay roll the employee is called into the office of the welfare
manager who talks over his progress and advancement.

No. 15. Opportunities are carefully explained at the time
of employment. Also, all employees are free to seek advice
from the employment department at any time.

No. 16. No systematic method is used for making oppor-
tunities for an advancement known, but our main resource for
all grades is through promotion, and our own store is the
first place we look when a vacancy occurs.

No. 17. Opportunities for advancement are gone into in
detail at the original interview. Constant promotion from
the ranks is sufficient to keep them before the eyes of all.

No. 18. The opportunities are explained to the employee
when he is taken on or transferred.

No. 19. Not emphasized. Known by seeing others ad-
vanced.

No. 20. Yes, at the time they are hired and by conversa-
tions later.

No. 21. Employment manager explains in course of inter-
view.

No. 23. These are made known to the applicant in a gen-
eral way by the employment manager before employment.

No. 24. Explained to the individual who shows promise.







TRANSFER, PROMOTION AND OTSCHA.RG1 135

and by the foreman or employment supervisor as circum-
stances dictate.

No. 25. Informed when hired by the foremen or by the
employment department. An instruction book is in course
of preparation in which will be incorporated some such in-
formation.

No. 26. Only in a general way. Men are informed when
hired of the qualities necessary to advancement.

No. 27. This is talked over when the person is hired.
Since the advance, save in pay, is slight, this phase is not
important here.

No. 29. The employee is instructed at the time of his first
interview in the employment department.

Part IV, Question 5. "What methods are used
to determine and rate the efficiency of employees?"

No. 2. Reports from foremen.

No. 3. None. Judgment of foremen considered sufficient.

No. 4. From record of work. Nearly all are on piece
work and a record is kept of the amount done.

No. 5. Card record of each man's work kept in pay-
master's office.

No. 6. No methods in use. Experiments are being tried
on office force.

No. 8. Judgment of foremen.

No. 9. Personal contact with all of the force.

No. 10. Depend entirely on judgment of foremen.

No. 11. Depend almost wholly on sales report and judg-
ment of department heads.

No. 12. Record of piece work. Reports of foremen.

No. 13. The task and bonus system (which will soon be
in universal use here) is too complicated to describe fully,
but it makes a careful study of the personnel, and the opera-
tives "promote themselves" when such a system is scientifi-
cally handled. The incentive and the opportunity are both
generously provided and the reward is proportionate.

No. 14. The quality and quantity of the work done is re-
corded.

No. 15. Records of productivity, errors, suggestions, and
attendance.

No. 16. For sales people it is done through two methods,
one through analysis of sales records, and the other through



136 HIKING THE WOKKER

analysis judgments made by the employment office in con-
ference with the executives in charge of the departments.
For all other employees it is based on the analysis of judg-
ments. A personal-record system is being devised which will
assure a much more accurate method of measuring the ef-
ficiency of the individual.

No. 17. Methods used for determining and rating ef-
ficiency are very complicated. Tasks are set by scientific
time-study methods. Skill required is the basis of classifica-
tion. The class rate divided by the standard task forms the
piece rate. Employees' records are chiefly followed up by
the payroll ledger sheet. (See Form No. 18, page 139.)

No. 21. The value of a task is determined by experiment,
based on ^so much per hour. With this as a standard the
efficiency is determined. Non-productive employees' efficiency
is based on observation and reports.

No. 24. Record is kept of amount and quality of work
on piece work. Employees are rated independently by the
foremen and by a representative from the employment de-
partment on the following points: adapted to work; suffi-
ciently trained ; attitude toward work ; capable of filling bet-
ter position; special aptitude; promptness; accuracy; ca-
pacity for team work.

No. 25. See question 7, part III, page 126.

No. 26. See question 7, part III, page 126.

No. 29. Reports from foremen. Promotion lies with them
entirely. This arrangement is not satisfactory.

No. 30. Judgment of superiors and instructors.

Part IV, Question 8. "What provision is there for
transfer and try-out of employees to other work in
the establishment?



? >



No. 13. "Transfer Wanted" file at bureau, which is first
resort when man is needed. "Cross index" by experience,
of all employees, which means that we hire "outside" only
when no transfer is possible or practical.

No. 14. Within a department, through the department
manager. Transfer from department to department, through
employment department.

No. 15. This is practiced regularly. We transfer about
225 each year from one department to another.



TRANSFER, PROMOTION AND DISCHARGE 137

No. 16. It is a firmly fixed policy not to dismiss a per-
son for the simple reason that he has been inefficient in one
kind of work. He is tried in various kinds of work be-
fore dismissal, if it is possible to make such a transfer.

No. 17. There is a very comprehensive and elaborate sys-
tem provided for trying out employees in other work. It
is not uncommon to have employees tried on a half-dozen
jobs during their first year of employment.

No. 18. Transfer takes place through employment office
with consent of foremen and superintendents.

No. 22. Whenever possible employees are given work in
another department when their own is slack. If special
ability is shown in the new work, an effort is made to make
the transfer permanent.

Part V, Question 1. "What are the various causes
for discharge from different positions and different
departments 1 ' 9

No. 1. Drunkenness; inefficiency; irregularity at work;
disobedience.

No. 2. Disobedience ; dishonesty ; intemperance.

No. 3. Seldom discharge. Reasons are varied.

No. 4. Dishonesty; inefficiency; disorder; unsteadiness;
untidiness; drinking.

No. 5. Lack of development inability to advance. It is
highly important that a man be capable of improvement
and advancement. If he cannot attain a certain minimum
standard he is discharged.

No. 7. Inefficiency; intemperance; laziness.

No. 8. Unreliability; stupidity; slowness; dishonesty.

No. 9. Drunkenness; inefficiency; lying.

No. 10. Carelessness; indifferent work; drunkenness.

No. 11. Stealing; intoxication.

No. 13. Careless, lazy, incompetent, unreliable, drunken-
ness, talking too much, bad disposition, trouble breeder, in-
subordinate, misconduct, misrepresentation.

(For the year 1915, only 2.2 per cent of employees were
discharged.)

No. 14. Inefficiency; continued irregularity in at-
tendance; fluctuation in volume of work.

No. 15. Intoxication; bold violation of certain rules; un-
steadiness.



L38 HIRING THE WORKER

No. 17. Bad spirit, refusing to co-operate, and impos-
sibility of development along these lines; inefficiency after
thorough trial.

No. 20. Drunkenness; dishonesty; inability to do the work
assigned ; etc.

No. 21. Incompetency ; insubordination; incompatibility;
and disloyalty.

No. 22. Refusal to obey orders ; fighting ; stealing ; lack of
personal neatness.

No. 23. Incompetency ; carelessness ; disobedience ; and in-
toxication.

No. 24. Insubordination ; intoxication ; infectious disease ;
incompetence (after trial in enough departments to make
sure ) .

No. 25. Usually insubordination. Inability to make day
guarantee on piece work. Careful selection has eliminated all
cases of intoxication.

No. 26. Habits; lack of ability; agitation; neglect of
work; disloyalty; carelessness; tardiness; lost time.

No. 29. Unwillingness to transfer is the chief reason.
Very few are discharged.

No. 30. Lack of ability ; misconduct ; slackness of work.

Part V, Question 5. "What control, in your opin-
ion, of discipline and discharge by the employment
manager is advisable ?"

No. 5. Complete control is essential.

No. 9. Employment manager should have full control sub-
ject to veto of superintendent. It is likely to prove dan-
gerous to let employees have too much to say with respect
to discharge, especially with low-grade or foreign-born help.

No. 13. The bureau acts as a court of appeal, but has
very little such work as foremen know what a stringent
check is placed on their action and do not discharge unless
the need is evident. Transfer can frequently take the place
of a discharge, especially when a foreman dislikes an em-
ployee personally. The system works very smoothly. It
is dangerous in my opinion to remove a foreman's authority,
but his actions should be checked up in all cases and he
should know definitely that such a course was followed.

No. 14. All discharge from the company should be ef-
fected through the employment department.



TRANSFER, PROMOTION AND DISCHARGE



139













^

\^_^


s


























]


Is

J






rl 3:

z 1


?


f

D


^




If


1

a


o
f




>


:'


I


s ?
3 3




j>

H


J


^H

73


n






I








2

m


M


* M


*>


-i


y,


*


X-




-J


!


S


^ ;




2


j


S


S


y


s


w


-


? Z










a


























>


^




*-"


Cn
















































n


J










r t
























Vj


*i


v


L


n


00












1 1
























v>^


<^


V


<~\




J. 5


.


































u.


^


^p


r~







.










rt
























0,


N




('<!








































V






01


m


01


z




























































<>




















(^


-R


VJ




rn














I r




^




















^>


Vi


V)




o














I *




>1






















-^)





'














rV


























^


^o




^












jj


T


L '
























Vo






^J










V Js,




f^


^S




E




5


g


^


<^ ^




-ft


v!


\1


-w




s






y *




fc
V


>>

T r






F" *


























^


^










Y:


X <j
i* }














'SJ


"vT


N^


-C; r>




-^


-


^~


Ci




2










^_








*>-S








5


^


-XJ






X


v*


Xj
















r~-


[;'




t-


1-












V






2




N
















ffl


X




V


t-5

*-i-




j




^5


|


S-


-s 5




|


;


Qi


^)


-


1


i








/~~~


T"


s


p




00


ci




S


S)




s s








S


2


i


3










r


J N










'V








-'


*^ \i




^


c


^N


**\


^.


N






f






-f







g








































if


jj




1










d


-


^L ^




J




|


















4

_t_






f >
1 1










S








5


^






S












vi









rr




^




y


sT


^^


v. ^




-^


vi"


--J


VT


d


^7










\_








tt




^




4N


CN


5


o ^




"^


9


^i


^i--


G^


VJ










r~


X
















^








K>


s:




xi






















Sj -












v*^


^ ^








^


^


^


t




*.


?~2.




\--


-
3f






^ ^

V \






























'


T3




?
* ro




P-








Ei










^t








^-t













?


-


T 1 w






















\








^










v\


^


C?


















5






^


1


<ss" <;>"




5


-






s


-




s

r
o






1
"~i






s


s s


6










1


2 .-i




*


2


!


f


s























































?


3 7


w










































(


f 3




























































































?




























































































3 S
















































t












































^


t:








































































































































ti

















































00



140 HIRING THE WORKER

No. 15. Every case should have his sanction if he is
charged for an increase in turn-over figures.

No. 16. The employment manager's consent should be
secured before any steps are taken in discharge.

No. 17. In our opinion, discipline and discharge are es-
sential parts of the function of employment.

No. 18. Allow final discharge to rest with employment
manager. He will always have to work with superintendents
and foremen and use diplomacy.

No. 19. He should be the high court and use his power
as little as possible. He should teach and support his fore-
men, but should not hesitate to reverse their decisions if
necessary.

No. 20. Complete control with general manager's assis-
tance.

No. 21. He should have complete control of both disci-
pline and discharge ; the former through the department
heads and the latter through his own department.

No. 22. Full control.

No. 23. Should have absolute control.

No. 24. I am satisfied with the arrangement here. The
foremen may send men for insubordination or intoxication,
and the hospital officials on account of disease, to the employ-
ment department. The case is investigated and discharge ap-
proved or some adjustment made.

No. 25. Complete control should be vested in this de-
partment.

No. 26. Full control after a careful study of the situa-
tion and consultation with foremen and superintendent if
thought necessary.

No. 27. Should only be expected to investigate cases of
discharge by foremen.

No. 28. Entirely satisfied with present system of giving
foremen power to discharge subject to review by employ-
ment department. The foremen ought to be held strictly
accountable for the work of their departments and for every
case of discharge. Any other system leads to confusion due
to divided responsibility.

No. 29. Complete control in this department is advis-
able.



A summary of replies to this question is given on
the following page :



TRANSFER, PROMOTION- AND DISCHARGE 141

SUMMARY OF REPLIES TO PART V, QUESTION 5

Total number of significant
replies 19

Number in favor of com-
plete control by employ-
ment department 14 (73.6 per cent)

Establishing a card record system for each employee
by no means solves the problem of locating and collect-
ing the data necessary in the work of the employment
manager. In organizations carrying several thousand
persons on the payroll, it becomes an exceedingly la-
borious task to compile by ordinary methods any exten-
sive figures concerning the length of employment, rates
of pay, or reasons for leaving.

Various methods have been devised for lessening
the burden of handling employees' cards. One of the
best of these is the method of using flags or vise sig-
nals attached to each card. By using numbers or let-
ters across the top of the card and five or six different
colored flags, it is possible thus to arrange for the
tabulation of a large number of characteristics.

Another method which is adapted to calculating the
labor turnover as well as quickly finding employees
who possess a number of different requirements is the
Findex file illustrated in the form below. A punch
is used to connect any two of the round holes, thus
making an opening similar to the long apertures at
the side of the card. To pick out the cards for men
answering a given description, rods are inserted at
the proper points as shown by a duplicate card on the
front of the box. When the box is turned upside down,
all the cards having elongated perforations at the right
places drop down about % of an inch. Those which do
not conform to the given description are held firmly
in place by the rods. By inserting a rod through the
slot provided at the top of the cards, those that have
dropped down are held in position when the box is



142



HIEING THE WORKER



turned upright. Cards of this kind can be made up to
suit the requirements of any organization.

Various types of electrical devices have also been
perfected by which punched cards can be mechanically
assorted. These devices are especially suited to large
organizations employing over 2,000 persons.



R p R !I R iV|| B ]| S |j B ;| B I. U
1 Ul * lm I



l m

il^te^ 11 S ) ! '
^0^0 'I



I = ; ; ;.|r;|e * K ; R s R s

<a ".oo ,



= c s ^s ^3 s|d| s 5 = 5 :t is &







CHAPTER IX

TRAINING AND QUALIFICATIONS OF EM-
PLOYMENT MANAGEES

THE returns are well agreed upon the point that
the successful manager needs a large amount of
first-hand knowledge of the tasks for which he is to
secure workers. To judge a man's qualifications in
any thorough way, even in order to talk with him in-
telligently, it is vitally essential that the one who hires
him be familiar with the technical requirements of
the task in question. In some instances employment
managers report that they send men to the foremen
for final judgment as to their fitness. While such a
procedure may be desirable in a highly technical or
specialized trade, it seems on the whole preferable to
have in the employment office a man of sufficient train-
ing and experience to make any delegation of responsi-
bility unnecessary.

The more general qualifications which the employ-
ment managers feel that their co-workers ought to pos-
sess are exacting in the extreme. A man whose char-
acter would fit the composite of their requirements
would represent an exceptionally high type. Regarded
as most important is the ability to judge human na-
ture. The would-be employment manager must be en-
dowed with a keen insight into human character; not

143



to wddagrat
Wlti
he
be able to brag others to his

wfflbeohfi^d
friendh- idatiMs vitk all of



He MS* tow



:: r- :-,. :-_-: :.: ::






wffl be for




- .: >: - ; .I' .-7 :; 1.17 :~:




QUALIFICATIONS OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGERS



145



the usual social reformer/' Strangely enough, none
of the replies state that the employment manager
should be well versed in psychology, and only one hints
that a training in economics or business administra-
tion would be desirable.

This official certainly needs to know the principles
of organization and ought to be able to appraise the
real worth of a task to the worker as well as to the
employer. Undoubtedly the reason for the absence
of any emphasis upon more technical college training
is to be found in the fact that many of the men who
replied have come up through the ranks in the firms
with whom they are employed and prize their practi-
cal experience above mere scholastic attainments. A
college education or its equivalent would seem to be
the lowest educational standard that ought to be set
for one in such an important position.

Beginning with the autumn of 1916, the Amos Tuck
School of Business Administration and Finance of
Dartmouth College has offered a graduate year of
study in employment problems. 1 This special course
includes a discussion of the problems of management
relating to "the employment and supervision of per-
sonnel, the control of working conditions, and the
relation between employer and employee." Each stu-
dent who pursues the course is expected to spend a por-
tion of his time doing practical work as an apprentice
in some employment department and will prepare a
thesis on the solution of some definite problem of man-
agement in a specific plant. Preparation for the year
of graduate study will consist of three years of gen-
eral college work, including courses in economics, po-

1 See Annals, May, 1916, article by Harlow S. Person, on "University
Schools of Business and the Training of Employment Executives."



146 HIKING THE WOKKER

litical science, and sociology, followed by a fourth year
of courses which give an introduction to the practical
field of business.

A large number of universities now offer graduate
and undergraduate courses in business administration.
Many of these are conducted in a thoroughly practi-
cal way and should afford very valuable training to
prospective executives in the employment field. The
importance of connections being established between
university departments offering courses of this nature
and various business organizations cannot be stated
too strongly. On the whole it might be profitable for
both vocational counselors and employment managers
to spend a considerable length of time as actual work-
ers in different occupations, but the serving of any
apprenticeship of sufficient length to acquire a practi-
cal working knowledge of several vocations is imprac-
ticable ; and even if it were possible, it would be likely
to result in deficient training along other lines. The
best possible substitute for extensive trade experience
is spending some time as an unpaid assistant in a
number of departments while still under college guid-
ance.

Full recognition of these principles has been made
by the Buffalo Chamber of Commerce in its proposed
plan for a College of Industrial Engineering. Class
rooms, library facilities and instructors will be fur-
nished by the University of Buffalo. Students expect
to gain the necessary practical experience in local busi-
ness houses and factories. Foremen and other execu-
tives from the factories and shops will be admitted to
the courses as well as regular students of the Uni-
versity. It is hoped that firms can be encouraged to
offer scholarships to promising employees.



QUALIFICATIONS OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGERS 147

The following topics are listed in the tentative out-
line for the course: Experimental and applied psy-
chology. Industrial hygiene. History of apprentice-
ship Sociology. Industrial Eelations. Industrial
Law. Factory Organization. Business Administra-
tion. Shop Management. Distribution and Traffic.

Very little information was secured as to the school-
ing of the employment managers. Fairly complete
statements were received from each as to experience
and other positions held.

No. 15 had served his firm for twelve years in vari-
ous capacities before entering upon his present duties.
As travelling salesman, foreman, and advertising man-
ager, he was brought into intimate touch with many of
the company's activities. No. 22 had served even a
longer apprenticeship. He began as a boy in the stock
room and advanced steadily through shipping depart-
ment, sales-room and paymaster's office to the post of
assistant superintendent.

The employment manager of a large department
store commenced as a salesman for a manufacturing
plant, was promoted to assistant sales manager, and
had charge of employment at the time of being trans-
ferred to the position which he now holds.

No. 19 did not enter the employ of his company until
late in life. After five years as head of the commercial
department of a high school, he entered the purchas-
ing division of the firm which he now represents and
was promoted from there to his present position.

No. 30 served for several years in the store-keeper's
department and was chief clerk there when he was pro-
moted to the position of assistant to the employment
manager. Two years later he was given full charge
of this work.



148 HIRING THE WORKER

A recently established department has at its head a
man who had successively been superintendent of pro-
duction and manager of the experimental department.

The men who had the best theoretical training had
as a rule spent but little time in the other departments
of their own factories. One had been for several years
a mechanical engineer and had seen service with effi-
ciency men in the field. Another had spent six years
in civil engineering work, the last two years of that
period having been spent as the assistant city engineer
of a city in Massachusetts. A third had been for sev-
eral years engaged in educational work.

A large department store gives this interesting
formulation of its requirement for the office of em-
ployment manager. It leaves something to be desired,
but is highly suggestive so far as it goes.



REQUIREMENTS
FOR EMPLOYMENT MANAGER

To be responsible for the selection, training and edu-
cation of employees.

I. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Sex : Male.

Age: At least 35.

Education: A mind trained either in an institution

of higher education or by experience.
Appearance: Dignified, forceful, yet approachable

looking.

II. PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS

Physical and Nervous Vitality: To allow complete
control under trying circumstances.



QUALIFICATIONS OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGERS 149
III. REQUIRED QUALITIES

Interested : In the force as individuals.

Sympathetic: With their ambitions, their abilities,
their possibilities.

Big, Fairminded and Impartial: In engaging, pro-
moting and discharging employees.

Humanitarian: In concerning himself with the con-
ditions under which the employees work.

Tactful: In drawing employees out and putting
them at their ease.

Imaginative: In inventing solutions of problems.

Sound but Magnanimous in His Judgment: To
weigh carefully all evidence before making deci-
sions, but to be ready to take a chance of being
gloriously wrong.

Honorable: In using his powers legitimately.

Masterful : Monarch in his own realm, yet approach-
able and of the people.

Inspiring: To lead without driving.

Open Minded: To untried methods and movements
in industrial circles; whether idealistic or prac-
tical.

Constructively Discontented : To be ever striving for
better and nobler fundamentals on which to build
business.

Energetic: In making the machinery of the organi-
zation move, rather than sitting back and watching
it move.

Thoroughly Executive: In having the forces carry
out their duties and meet their responsibilities.

Sensitive: In the managing of his force to prevent
leakage, waste, overlapping, duplication, overflow
or insufficiency.

Self-Knowledge : To be able to recognize his own
strength and weaknesses.



150



HIKING THE WOKKEK



REQUEST FOR HELP

To Employment Clerk : Date

Please supply

to work as in dept.

Cross out f Piece worker Addition to force -n f f hour

words not used \ Day worker Replacement ' r \ week

To replace Who leaves

a

tc it (i (i

ti n n

To increase force on work

Reason for increasing force

Remarks

Approved Signed

Supt. Sec.

Foreman Dept.

Gen 1 1 Supt. (Signature must be Foreman's own,
not Clerk's}



FORM No. 19. REQUEST FOR HELP

Thin paper, 6 by 4 inches, perforated on left margin for detachment

from stub



CHAPTER X

SPECIMEN BLANKS, KECOED FOEMS, AND
INSTEUCTION BOOKLETS

IT will be taken for granted that every employment
department will need to devise such record forms,
blanks, and printed instructions as are suited to the
peculiar demands of the situation. On this account, it
would be of comparatively little interest to the average
reader to consider many of the forms found in use by
the companies visited. For the same reason, numerous
details of office practice have been omitted. In select-
ing the examples presented in this and preceding chap-
ters, the aim has been to illustrate practices which ap-
pear to be common to several types of business and
which have as wide an application as possible.

An extended discussion of the application blank and
several specimen forms will be found in Chapter VI.
The next blank to be considered is the requisition for
help illustrated by Forms 19, 20, and 21. It is usually
directed to the head of the employment division, and
is to be signed by the foreman or department head
requesting help, by the employment manager, and oc-
casionally by the superintendent or works manager.
In the larger establishments, the signature of the su-
perintendent is not required except in cases where con-
siderable additions are to be made to the working

151



152



HIRING THE WORKER



REQUISITION FOR HELP

Date 191

To Operating Engineer
Works Manager
Superintendent
Employment Div.

Please furnish one man for ^JJ^orar em Ply men t as

on shift in Dept.

at rate of about per _ to report for work on

or about 191

Signed Foreman.

f Has left

To increase force To take the place of_ who <! Is discharged

( Is sick

Annrov^H Works Manager or

Approved Superintendent

Operating Engineer

FORM No. 20. REQUISITION FOR HELP
Thin paper, G by 4 inches. For back, see below

Requisition Filled 191

By Sending Clock No

Name of Employee

f Approved Health and Sanitation Dept } Employment Div

( Date & Time J

Accepted Foreman

Entered.... Cost Department






FORM No. 20. REQUISITION FOR HELP
This text is carried on the back of Form No. 20



FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS



153



REQUISITION FOR HELP

Always use this form when in need of help and whenever possible notify
Employment Department one week ahead.

191

Employment Dept. :

Please employ for Dept one age to

with the following qualities

Kind of work wanted for

Wages to start Chances of advancement

Steady or temporary work When needed

Signature Dept

NEW EMPLOYEE SLIP

This slip is to be sent to Acct. Dept. for record, by department head, as
soon as new employee is placed at work.

M

Address

Date of Married or Starting Check

Birth Single Wage No

Is to begin work on in Dept in the position referred to

on back.

Employment Department

Per

Began work 191 Dept.

Head _

If transferred from another dept.

or if employee worked here bet ore Div.

state below : Supt



FORM No. 21. REQUISITION FOR HELP
Original is 6 inches wide, 4 inches high, printed on both sides as shown



154



HIRING THE WORKER



r-










1












r-












C










P












J










S












^










PH












02










w


+3










a










h


&










o>

-4-S













>>






o r




^










o
w


1






W














o


1






wT














CO


1






1

H


1.


I










p

<< ^


1 1




S


g


II




*M*








II


*-" "^










>>


pg








^


?










&


1








1?


3H
H^r












f








EH *


^ W




















'1


| &X










Q?










a n


& ^










1










S |


"S ^










jS










Q" T+


a




<D






hH










K 1


S '




H
















O 5J


JD




(-H
















EH


p.










hD










^ CQ


a










g










g


|










1










i












1










1










v-^


c3 ^










^p


cT

1
fc


Address,


Employed,


o>
bfi


Nationality


ji-


1

1


6
^

3


1

"a









FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS 155

force, or when some other unusual circumstance ob-
tains.

The reverse of the requisition for help is frequently
used as a record for the accounting or pay-roll depart-
ment as in Forms 20 and 21. Where a physical ex-
amination is required, space may be left for the signa-
ture of the examining physician or the head of the
health department.



Watchman

Please Pass to

Dept Foreman

When O'clock A. M P. M 191....

Signed

Per

Employment Dept.



FORM No. 23. PASS FOR ISSUANCE TO NEW EMPLOYEES
Pink slip, 5 by 3 inches

A large manufacturing concern (No. 29, Chart No.
1) asks each employee to sign Form No. 22. It is made
out by the foreman after the individual goes to work
and is intended for the use of the cashier. When the
employee is discharged, a red card is attached to it
stating the reason for dismissal and the two cards are
filed away, for reference in case the employee should
ask to re-enter the company's service.

Numbers 23 and 24 are passes issued to new em-
ployees. No. 24 has the advantage of being easily



156



HIKING THE WOKKER



filled out by punching the appropriate date and pur-
pose.

As soon as an application has been favorably passed
upon by the employment department, some notice is
forwarded to the paymaster. Form No.. 27 contains
the necessary information regarding the employee's
work and sufficient data to serve as an identification.



00



RECREATION
ROOM

PASS



CHECK NUMBER



SIGNED BY FOREMAN



FACTORY PASS



AM
IN



PM
IN



AM
OUT



PM
OUT



Hand this Pass personally to the Door Keeper



&



e



co co 2S.

"I



FORM No. 24. Recreation Room Pass
Pink slip, 5 by 3 inches

Forms No. 25 and 28 are used by a large department
store.

A few companies have published instruction book-
lets for the use of workers who are just entering the
organization. These ordinarily present in brief form
the essential facts regarding the company's regula-
tions and policies and give some advice as to health



FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS



157



Name










HEAD OF DEPARTMENT MUST REGISTER EXACT TIME OF EMPLOYEE AND
SIGN CARD EACH DAY.


Day


Out
Noon


In
Noon


Floor Supt.
Signature


Day


Out
Noon


In

Noon


Floor Supt.
Signature


M








T








T








F








w








S








Mon.


Tues.


THIS CARD MUST BE
Wed . PUNCHED EVERY MORNING
BY DOORKEEPER AT
STREET ENTRANCE


Thur.


Fri. Sat.



FORM No. 25. EMPLOYEE'S PASS USED BY A LARGE DEPART-
MENT STORE
White card, 4^ by 2^ inches. For back, see below

and safety. One of the most comprehensive of these
pamphlets is issued by firm No. 15 (Chart No. 1, page
32). It treats of the following points in addition to
the topics appearing in the extracts reproduced below :
Pay Checks ; Starting Time ; Closing Time ; Hours for



I. Employees may use either street entrance in the morning. During
the day, however, the Time Desk Entrance only is to be used.

II. The Head of Department shall notify employees when to report.
Time Cards not punched before 8.20 may be signed the first time
by Dept. Head; the second time the card must be OK'd at Super-
intendent's Office, 1st floor.

III. Time of lunch hour shall be recorded in space on opposite side by
Head of the Department.

IV. Time cards will be collected from the racks Saturday afternoon by
the Pay Roll Department.

V. Unless accompanied by a customer, or on lunch hour, employees
shall not leave their departments without a written pass.



FORM No. 25. BACK



158



HIRING THE WORKER



Signature (in full)



Age



Street Address



City or Town



Name


Shop
Location


Date


Number








Locker No. Date { g?




charged.












Date Employed


Rate
Changed


















Rate


Verified


to




























































O-


















\J









FORM No. 26. EMPLOYEE'S REGISTRY CARD, FOR CARD-INDEX

FILE. FACE AND BACK
White card, 5 by 3 inches, perforated for index-file rod



FOEMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS



159



ENGAGEMENT CARD

To PAYMASTER: (Insert "RE" if re-engagement)
Name... No.

Home address _

Date
Local address of birth

Last occupation Employer

Nationality Recommended by..

Engaged 191 As.

For Dept . , Rate

Piece Worker Productive Labor New Employee
Day Worker Expense Labor Replacement



Cross out | Married

words \
not used J Single



No. and description of dependents



Previously engaged 191 As

For Dept. Old No Rate

Approved: Employment Dept.

Supt.

Reported for work M 191

Approved:

'. Foreman

FORM No. 27
Thin white paper, o 1 ^ inches wide, 3% inches high

ENTRANCE ORDER TO PAY-ROLL DEPT.

(Shall not be issued without previous requisition for new employee)

Name No

Dept. Position

Classification No

Salary To begin

Date entered store

Employment signature

Approved

Store Manager



FORM No. 28
Thin white paper, 5 by 3 inches



160 HIRING THE WORKER

Paying Off; General Instructions for Handling Or-
ders; Duties of Office Clerks; Mutual Belief Associa-
tions; Savings and Loan Fund; Accident Compensa-
tion; List of Factory Departments. The practice of
printing the individual's name on the front cover is
a personal touch that adds interest to the booklet in
the eyes of most employees.

BOOK OF INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTION

Manufacturing Co.

INTRODUCTION

The information here given is for the mutual benefit of the
-Manufacturing Company and its employees, and we



ask all to co-operate with us by attentively reading each page
and carefully observing all the suggestions given.

This booklet will be especially helpful to the new employee,
presenting as it does specific information pertaining to the
various regulations now in effect, and thus aiding him to
adapt himself more quickly to the new surroundings. The
beginner will find it is to his advantage to become thor-
oughly informed concerning that portion of the work on
which he is placed. His progress will depend entirely on
the thoroughness with which he has mastered each detail con-
nected with his position, so that his work will require less
and less supervision as experience is gained and as a conse-
quence his value to the organization will be increased.

The older employees are asked to co-operate with us by
being especially attentive and courteous to new employees;
to answer all questions pertaining to the work, and to offer
any suggestions that will aid beginners to become more fa-
miliar with the requirements of their new positions.

GENERAL INFORMATION

ABSENCE FROM WORK

Punctuality and regularity on the part of all employees
are expected. If unavoidably detained from work through



FOKMS, EECOKDS AND BOOKLETS 161

illness or other causes, your department head should he noti-
fied without delay, either by telephoning or by sending word
by a fellow employee, so that arrangements may be made to
have your work performed during your absence.



TIME CLOCK

Each person must register his or her own card personally.
Be sure to register on the clock both at the beginning and
end of each work period. If at any time you fail to do so
take your card to the head of your department and have it
corrected at once. This is very important, as it will prevent
errors being made in your pay. Try to get a clear and dis-
tinct imprint on your card, for otherwise it is very difficult
for the Accounting Department Clerks to compute your time
correctly. Unless you get permission from the head of your
department you should not remove your card from the rack
to which it is assigned.



ATTACHMENT OF WAGES

Attachment or assignment of wages, or failure to pay bills,
will be considered sufficient causes for dismissal.



EMPLOYEES BILLS

Employees owing money should settle by some satisfactory
arrangement, so that creditors will not be obliged to refer
such cases to us.

CHANGE IN ADDRESS

Please notify your department foreman of any change in
address.

WRITING ON MERCHANDISE

Anyone known to write his or her name and address on
goods going out of the factory is subject to dismissal.



CLEANLINESS

Each person will be expected to keep his or her working
place in a clean, orderly and business-like condition. Waste



162 HIRING THE WORKER

paper and rubbish of all kinds should be deposited in re-
ceptacles provided for that purpose. Employees should not
handle their work with dirty hands, as it wastes material.



USE OF WORKING HOURS

Working hours are meant solely for business and all per-
sonal matters should be transacted at other times. All per-
sonal mail should be addressed to your home, and during
working hours employees will not be permitted to receive
outside telephone messages nor to see visitors at the office
except in very urgent cases, such as sickness or death.



USE OF MATERIAL

Work spoiled by carelessness may be charged to the one
responsible. Your value to the company depends not only
on the amount of work you produce, but also on the amount
of material you save. The ability to get more finished
product from a certain lot of raw material is in the same
class with the ability to get a greater amount of work done
in a certain period of time. The employee who is continually
striving to effect certain economies is the one whose progress
is assured.

CARE OF TOOLS AND MACHINERY

Tools and machinery entrusted to you should be handled
with extreme care. Attention should be paid to sufficient
lubrication. Before using, each bearing should be oiled and
if the machine is running continually for a long period it
may be necessary to oil it at frequent intervals. Consult
your foreman concerning its proper care and if anything
appears to be in the least wrong vwith a machine you are
operating, report the matter at once to him, as a machine
should not be run when it is out of order.



APPEARANCE OF DESKS

If you are doing clerical work your desk is your work
bench, and to be used most effectively it should be kept in
order. Matters which you have completed and expect seldom



FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS



163



to use, should be placed in a file, as well as all other matters
to which other people may have to refer. Pins, clips, rub-
ber bands, etc., should be kept in receptacles and not allowed
to scatter around loose in the drawers, nor should they be
wasted.

SUGGESTION SYSTEM

We wish to have each detail, connected with every opera-
tion in this factory, executed in the most thorough and up-
to-date manner and to that end invite suggestions from all
employees. Nothing so clearly indicates the progressive em-
ployee as the number of practical suggestions he makes, for
this shows he is deeply interested in his work and is striving
to improve methods of performing it.

Suggestions to improve methods, machinery, merchandise,
etc., may be written out and placed in the suggestion boxes,
which can be found near the Bulletin Boards in the various
departments or handed to your department head. These
suggestions are collected at intervals and carefully considered
by the committees which are particularly interested.

When a suggestion is accepted the employee is notified and
an award is made, and if it is the first suggestion from that
employee a certificate is awarded. When a second sugges-
tion is accepted a framed picture of the factory is presented.
The number of suggestions accepted from each employee is
inscribed on the brass tag, which is mounted on the frame of
this picture. When ten suggestions have been accepted, from
one person, a special prize is awarded.



LUNCH KOOM FOR MEN AND WOMEN

A lunch room has been provided for those who stay in the
factory for their luncheons. This is located on the fifth floor
of building 3, section 2, and may be reached by using the
elevator in building 3, section 1, which will take you directly
to the fifth floor. The men's lunch room is on the north side
and the women's is on the south side of this room.

All employees who remain in the factory for lunch (with a
few authorized exceptions) are required to make use of this
room. Several kinds of hot dishes may be obtained, in addi-
tion to coffee and milk, at moderate prices. The eating of
lunches throughout the plant is forbidden as it leads to un-



164 HIRING THE WORKER

tidiness, and attracts vermin, so we ask all who bring their
lunches to make use of the lunch room.

RECREATION ROOM

At the west end of the section in which the lunch room is
located is a room for women, and it is hoped that all who are
in the factory during noon hour will make use of it.

CIRCULATING LIBRARY

In the recreation room we maintain, for the use of our
women employees, a branch of the Public Library. This
branch is open daily from 12:20 to 12:58, and any of the
books on hand may be borrowed for a period of two weeks.
There is no charge made for the use of these books, and the
same rules and regulations apply to their use as are in effect
at other branches of the Public Library.

LIBRARY OP BUSINESS BOOKS

In the room adjoining Department 18 is a useful collection
of books and magazines on business and technical subjects.
The library hours are in the morning from 8 :00 to 8 :30 and
from 10 :30 to 11 :00.

Reference books, such as encyclopedias, dictionaries, etc.,
may be consulted at any time. Employees wishing to borrow
magazines or books on any subject should apply first to their
department foreman, who will refer the request to the li-
brarian.

Any employee interested in a business or technical subject
is urged to make application for books in this library.

PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS

A large percentage of all accidents in manufacturing in-
dustries is due to lack of care on the part of the employee.
Employees should use every precaution in working around
machines in operation, to protect themselves from accidents.
Machines should not be cleaned or oiled while in operation.
If an employee thinks that the chance for accidents will be
reduced by applying guards to any part of a machine, he
should bring this matter to the attention of his department
head.



FOKMS, EECOKDS AND BOOKLETS 165

TRANSFERRING EMPLOYEES FROM ONE DEPARTMENT TO AN-
OTHER

It is our endeavor to place employees in the positions to
which they are best adapted and for this purpose, and espe-
cially with new employees, transfers may be made from one
position or department to another.

In places where work is seasonable, we endeavor to keep
employees occupied continuously by transferring them tem-
porarily to other places where their services may be required.

MEDICAL SERVICES

In the interest of our employees we conduct a factory clinic,
so that prompt aid may be given in case of sudden sickness
or injury. A graduate nurse is in constant attendance, and
twice a week a physician, in no way connected with the man-
agement, visits our clinic to advise any employee who may
be in need of his services. No charge is made for this service.

Our object in maintaining a clinic in the factory is to in-
duce employees to go to the nurse or doctor before they are
sick, so that preventative steps may be taken if the health
of an employee is endangered.

NOTICE BEFORE LEAVING

Employees who intend to leave our employ should, when
possible, give notice to their department heads at least one
week in advance, so that other arrangements can be made to
fill the position.

IN CASE OF FIRE

When a fire alarm is sounded, employees are to remain at
their regular work and must not run to the windows. If
the fire is in or near your department, do not become excited
but depend upon your department head for instructions. In
case of danger, or in case it is necessary to clear the room,
your department foreman will arrange to have all employees
leave by the exit farthest from the fire.

A valuable little book of forty pages entitled "Health
Hints " is published by the Men's and Women's Mutual



166 HIRING THE WORKER

Eelief Associations of the same company (No. 15).
that issues the booklet quoted from above. Following
the introduction and the general discussion of pre-
venting sickness reprinted below, the booklet discusses
in a simple practical way the following common com-
plaints: Boils, Colds, Constipation, Chilblains, Con-
sumption, Diarrhoaa, Headaches, Indigestion, Strains,
Sweaty Feet. There are excellent suggestions for the
care of the teeth and the eyes and directions for treat-
ing ordinary wounds.

HEALTH HINTS

/
INTRODUCTION

"The First Wealth Is Good Health. ' 'Emerson.

A large portion of the practice of the average physician
develops from the neglect of the petty ailments which are
very common in our daily lives. At the beginning of many
complaints, if the patient had applied some of the simple
remedies suggested in this booklet, he could have avoided
serious illness.

The purpose of this little book is to instruct employees how
to prevent sickness and to suggest the steps that should be
taken to obtain relief from the ills which most frequently
occur.

The information herein given, supplemented by additional
suggestions from the factory nurse or our * clinic doctor,
should be of material benefit to you in aiding you to overcome
common disorders and to maintain your bodies in that condi-
tion of supreme physical efficiency which is earnestly sought
by all.



* Our doctor can be consulted at the factory clinic at 11 :00
A. M. on Tuesdays and Fridays.

PREVENTION OP SICKNESS

To prevent sickness two things are important: First we
should make our bodies as strong and as sound as possible,



FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS



167



and second, we should keep away from contagious diseases.
A healthy person is much better prepared to escape and
to resist disease than a sickly person. Nor is it so difficult
to be healthy if one is careful. Good air ; good food ; good
habits ; a proper amount of exercise ; sufficient rest and sleep ;
personal cleanliness, and attention to the bowels are neces-
sary.

(a) Good Air Good air is required both day and night.
Keep out-of-doors as much as possible. That is where the
best air is found. In the house either windows or doors
should be partially opened, to allow the good air to enter and
the bad air to escape. If a room smells stuffy the air is not
good and this is not healthful.

(b) Good Food Too little food results in a dangerous
weakness; too much, in the accumulation of fat. Neither
condition is healthy. The proper amount of food depends
on the person, and also on the character of his work and the
season. When his work is light a person needs less food,
especially in hot weather. Foods vary greatly in the amount
of fat, sugar, starch and mineral matter they contain. Tne
needs of the human body are best cared for by a mixed diet.
Too much fat, starch or sugar usually results in increase of
weight, and they should be avoided by persons inclined to
grow stout. The plainer the food the better for the health.
Most people know what will agree with them and what will
not. If they stick to simple food they will live longer and
be happier. "Whatever the food may be, it should be thor-
oughly chewed ; otherwise work will be put upon the stomach
and intestines which they are in no measure fitted for nor
intended to perform. Food should always be protected from
flies. These pests often come directly from sewage that is
not properly protected, or from manure heaps, to the dinner
table and it has been proved that they carry the germs of
disease.

(c) Good Habits. The excessive use of alcoholic liquors
is one of the commonest causes of many serious diseases.
Even their moderate use is often harmful. The alcohol habit
is easily acquired and very difficult to overcome. It is much
safer never to learn to drink. Not only are the ordinary
liquors dangerous ; patent medicines may also be quite as bad.
Patent medicines which contain morphine and cocaine are
even worse than alcohol.

Though tobacco serves no good purpose, when used in
moderation it is generally used without apparent injury.



168 HIEING THE WORKER

Everyone would be better off without tobacco; and for some
people it is much worse than for others. Growing boys
should not use tobacco nor smoke cigarettes. It is extremely
undesirable to use tobacco just before meals when there is no
food in the stomach. Excessive use of tea or coffee is harm-
ful and for some people their use is even dangerous. If you
suffer ill effects from using either tea or coffee it would be
much better to do without it.

(d) Exercise. Moderate exercise is good for every man,
woman and child. To keep in good condition, some exercise
should be taken every day. Do not get overtired. The best
exercise is that which is agreeable. Out-of-doors exercise in
the pure air is very good for everyone.

(e) Rest and Sleep. If one does not have enough rest and
sleep he becomes irritable and depressed, and the unrested
body is much less able to resist disease. As everybody knows,
very young children should sleep much of the time. The
period needed for sleep gradually diminishes as we grow
older. Children require ten to twelve hours; youths eight
to ten, and adults seven to eight hours.

(f ) Personal Cleanliness. The impurities of the body pass
out through the skin to a considerable extent, and must be
removed if one wishes to remain healthy. This is done by
bathing with hot water and soap. Everyone should take a
weekly bath at least, and in hot weather, when the skin is
more active, daily baths may be necessary. Frequent baths
may also prevent skin diseases and boils. Special attention
should be given to the cleanliness of the hands, as dirt from
them may be carried to the mouth.

(g) Attention to the Bowels. If the waste of the body is
not passed regularly from the bowels, weakness and tired-
ness, low spirits, headache and loss of appetite will result. A
daily movement of the bowels is necessary for good health.
It is best to have a regular time for it, and not to permit any-
thing to interfere with this elimination of waste. Bulky food
instead of concentrated food will tend to cure habitual con-
stipation.

Good examples of bulky foods are oatmeal and other
cereals ; potatoes and other vegetables. Meat is the most con-
centrated food. Constipation is easily cured in the beginning,
but only with extreme difficulty later. If a change in food
is not effective, a doctor should be consulted without delay.



FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS



1G9



If you should receive a cut or
bruise, no matter how slight it may
seem to you, notify your foreman, then
go to the Hospital immediately and
allow the Doctor to dress it. Trivial
cuts and bruises often cause the most
serious results.



SAFETY BULLETIN No. 1




The Norton Companies ex-
pect every man to do his part
in eliminating accidents.



The Best Safety Device known
is A Careful Man



To All Applicants FOP
Employment



Norton Company
Norton Grinding Co.

Worcester, Mass.

The Norton companies are trying
to eliminate loss of time and wages as
well as suffering due to accidents to
their employes.

These Companies believe in"Safe-
ty First," and do not want careless
workmen in their employ

"SAFETY FIRST" means:
To be sure you thoroughly under*
stand your job before starting, and to
be careful, not only of yourself, but of
your fellow workmen.

When you see a red ball danger
sign, take care; look around before you
step.

Don't take short cuts through dan-
gerous places, but use regular passage-
ways.

If you see a board with a nail
sticking up, turn it down it only takes
u moment and may save some poor



This Contains Information
of Importance to YOU

OEAD it carefully and if you
do not understand it thor-
oughly be sure and have the
Employment Office attendant
explain it to you. He will do so
cheerfully*

fellow a long time in the hospital.

Don't leave your tools lying care-
lessly around on the floor where a pass-
erby can stumble over them, and don't
place materials or tools so that they
can fall and injure yourself or a fel-
low workman.

Be careful not to wipe, oil or re-
pair machinery in motion, and always
take the precaution to see that the ma-
chine can not be started unexpectedly
and catch some one unawares.

In working around moving mach-
inery take care that you have no loose
clothing such as ties, sleeves, or tails
of jumpers dangling so that they will
catch in something. Roll your sleeves
up or tie them tightly around your
wrist.

Don't chip or grind without wear-
ing goggles. Your foreman will pro-
vide them.

Don't use tools in bad condition.
If they are handed to you, call your
foreman's attention to their condition.



FORM No. 29. FOUR-PAGE "SAFETY BULLETIN"



170 HIRING THE WORKER



INSTRUCTIONS FOR NEW EMPLOYEES

Name.

Number

Report to

LOCKER ROOMS:

Regular employees will be assigned locker-rooms by the Time Keeper,
whose office is at the time-desk entrance in the rear of the store. A
locker-room on the Sixth floor is for the use of extra people

INSTRUCTION IN WORK AND CONDUCT!

"Your department manager will be directly responsible for instruct-
ing you in all of >our work and you should be furnished immediately on
reporting with a typewritten schedule of your duties. The Educational
Department will assist your superior in general educational work. The
rule book given you in the Employment Office should be carefully
studied in order that you may be familiar with the general rules and
regulations of the store.

Sales-people after being entered in the Employment Office, shall
report directly to the Educaticnal Office on the Seventh floor, for pre-
liminary instruction before going to their departments.

(OVER)



RECORDING OF TIME!

You may use either one of the street entrances when you report in
the morning. At noon-time and at night you shall use the time-desk
entrance only. When you enter in the morning your time-card will be
punched at the door. At noon the time when you go to luncheon and
return will be recorded by the head of your department on the card and
will be signed for each day. At night it is not necessary for you to
record your time in any way. On Saturday the time-card must be left
in the rack on your floor.

If you come in after 8:20 in the morning, your time-card will have to
be signed immediately in the Employment Office. If there is any mis-
take in the recording of your time you should also go to the Employment
Office to have it corrected. Mistakes in pay or in commissions of the
sales-force are corrected in the Pay Roll department on the Seventh
floor.

CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION!

Every employee is a member of the Co-operative Association and is
entitled to all its privileges and benefits. The office is on the Eighth
floor and all the information desired may be obtained there. Employ-
ees' Lunch-Room and Club-Rooms are also on the Eighth floor and all
new employees are invited to use these rooms freely.

(OVER)



FORM No. 30. INSTRUCTION CARD FOR NEW EMPLOYEES
Front and back. A heavy card, 5 by 3 inches



FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS



171



ORIGINAL

INCREASE ORDER

Name No

Dept Position

Classification No

Increase weekly salary from $ to $

To begin

Employment signature

Approved

Store Manager

Thin white slip, 5 by 3 inches

RECOMMENDATION FOR INCREASE IN PAY

To EMPLOYMENT DEPT. Date 19

Name No

Piece worker Day worker On salary. Age

(cross out words not used)

Engaged 19 as

Present occupation Dept

Increase recommended ($ ) per

Increase to date from 19

Present rate $ per Proposed rate $ per

Last increase $ per Date 19

Reasons for recommending increase:

Approved : Signed :

Supt. Foreman



FORMS 31, 32. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR INCREASE OF PAY
Green paper, 5% inches wide, 4 inches high



172 HIKING THE WORKER

Valuable educational work has been accomplished in
some concerns by means of leaflets, much briefer
than the one quoted from above, placed in the
monthly pay envelopes. These are usually prepared
by the examining physician or his staff. When they
dealt with pertinent health and sanitation questions,



REQUEST FOR TRANSFER
Date....



To the Employment Department

PLEASE TRANSFER

Name No.

From.. Location

To Location

Reason...



Foreman

New No

Date Approved

Employment Manager.



FORM No. 33. TRANSFER OF EMPLOYEE
White paper, 6 by 4 inches

and were written in concise, simple language, their re-
ception proved most gratifying.

An excellent opportunity for co-operation between
the employment and safety departments is offered in
the field of instructing the new worker. Form No. 29
is given out to all new employees by the employment
department of a large concern manufacturing grind-
ing machinery. It is followed up later by instruction




FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS 173



REPORT ON EMPLOYEE

191.

Name Clock No

assigned to this department...., 191

Is unsatisfactory in the following particulars

Intends to leave for the following reasons

Must be laid off for lack of work

Has been out over (3) three days without notifying us



I recommend that he be

In my opinion he is fitted for work as.



Dept.

Foreman

(OVER)



FORM No. 34. RECOMMENDATION FOR DISMISSAL OR TRANSFER

OF EMPLOYEE
Pink paper, 6 inches wide, 4 inches high. Face and back are shown



Amount Due Approved for

$ Week Ending 191 Payment

$ Week Ending 191

Disposition of the case



191

Employment Division

Noted

Health & Sanitation Department



174



HIRING THE WORKER



given in various ways by both the employment and
safety departments.

Form No. 30 is a very brief set of instructions issued
by a department store. It is printed on a white card
about 3 by 5 inches.

Occasionally instructions are printed in several lan-
guages, but the large percentage of illiteracy among



MANAGER, PAYROLL DIVISION:
Please transfer the name of
Registry N"<~>


now on the payroll of the


Department
Division


at a salary of $ per to


the payroll of the
No. at


Department
Division Registry


salary of $ '. per beginning


, 19


Hours: In out in


out . . .






Manager


Mgr. Employment and Instruction Dept.


Manager.



FORM No. 35. PAYMASTER'S NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF EM-
PLOYEE

White paper, 6 by 4 inches

the foreign-born employees often renders this means
ineffectual except in the case of very simple directions.
Forms 14 to 18 inclusive (Chapter VIII) illustrate
some of the record forms in use by employment man-
agers who are keeping in touch with the progress of
workers under their care. Where similar records are
kept, recommendations for increase in pay should have
the employment department's approval. (See forms



FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS



175





S
1

1


1

t>

j[


b

rK >-

1

-^


> '
i ?

I !


>

i


|

0>


t


r


2J
|




3f






1


i


Sj





















<t>










pr










p










i

1










j










i




















S


















HJ-J


i


















O


i







































^




















2 o


i


















CO


5










i








P 5


:










s






H


TRANSFER
trd, 8 inches wi


v


b


?

*> "


j


[


;


I'


i-


RANSFER


s-w

^g

5' S

g

^
*>


o

i '

p
- i


j

3


g
fr

02

5

^t-*

b

g;

'




tq
*




T5

1


9

i*
1

r


RECORD
Cloc


i


|


h


o

ft)




1




1




?r

o


i










b




















|;





|


s































































j>




















M*




















=5"










1


Tj








9










o











72










i


3








1



176 HIKING THE WOKKEB



VOLUNTARY LEAVING OR DISCHARGE

CHECK No Age Date..... 191

Please pay to Dept

wages for week ending

Dept. Head...



Left Discharged.

Cause ...



Empl. Agt

This slip must be signed by Empl. Agt. if employee is leaving.



FORM No. 37. EMPLOYEE'S ORDER FOR FINAL PAY CHECK
Orange paper, 6 by 4 inches. See page 183



REMOVAL ORDER

Name

Dept Position.

Date removal to take effect

Cause ..



Date.... ...191



FORM No. 38. REMOVAL ORDER USED IN A DEPA RTMENT STORE
White slip, 5 by 3 inches



FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS 177



MANAGER PAYROLL DIVISION

Please Discontinue the name of

Registry No.

Department Effective

Reason for leaving



(See other side)
Qualifications

(See other side)



Deduct i

Manager
Book of Rules Company property

Drinking Cup received

Locker Key

Total...



Mgr. Emp't and Inst. Dept.

[OVER]



When filling in the lines marked "Reasons for leaving"
and " Qualifications, " use only the terms indicated below.

REASONS FOR LEAVING
Resigned (state reason)
Left without notice



Discharged



Insubordination
Slowness
Inaccuracy
Repeated tardiness
Repeated absence
Dishonesty



QUALIFICATIONS
Good

Fair

Poor (add whether "slow" or "inaccurate")



FORM No. 39. PAYMASTER'S NOTICE OF EMPLOYEE'S LEAVING
Yellow paper, printed both sides, 5j^ inches wide by 4 inches high



178



HIRING THE WORKER




























j


T-

O5






















I


02
M


i-






















fg


Q


























o





















































fe


























B

i












b














to


























"g


























g












*s












bJD


O i>












rt












.S


PH <y












1












o3






bC








P












33


fe




d




















^,


O .^




*S




















,p


Q M


frl


c3








S_i



















^1








1.












g


||


H


"- 1




















flj


J2


O








O)














E


HH -<











o

1


1
c












1


S^
g*

5 ^


Q








<4-(














0^


\w


p>








o














73


PH O


i

a








1







i









I


el










SH


























03

6




1


d

o

O


3






8
1


il




+s




















pj


o ^




K<


















73




> c3


L


P


d

o
















g


^


* ffi

CO HH


-*J




















o


*2


rvn


tf




















1


1


1

<4







^




bX)

















^j


PH









'>




0)








1


1


r*

^






^




c3




O










rti








+3




s


1'


1

c3






"8


O


a









03




M 1





,, ,




03


bC


c3


^






6


CO






1





i


o

73

"3


ismiss


c

o3
^3



02


u


03
^


O






s




s


5


^




Q


s




(z;


o



FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS



179



FORM No. 41. SUMMARIZED RECORD OF THE WORK OF THE EMPLOYMENT OFFICE
The original is a sheet 83^ inches wide by 11 inches high, perforated for loose-leaf binding. It is here condensed to
show the text of the headings and footings in full, but with much shortened columns


Head of Pyramid. Store Manager.


Head of Dept.
Approved..... Authorized


I recommend the above changes ....


H




3

1

CD


INSTRUCTIONS. Change in rate of pay will be made (o) on the basis of the kind of work employee is doing and his efficiency in that work;
(t<) on punctuality and regularity in attendance; (c) length of service in the employ of the company; (d) length of time since last increase.
Any employee recently transferred from another department should be considered by both the head of the department which he has left
and the head of the department to which he has been transferred before final recommendation is made.
Your recommendation requires the final approval of the Store Manager before it becomes effective. You are, therefore, under no circum-
stances, to promise your subordinate any increase you may recommend.
Your expense for the first week in last year was ..


1 Following is a list of employees who report to you at this date. Please note carefully the instructions regarding changes in salary, and
recommend such changes as you consider justified. This h'st must be sent to the Head of your Dept. by ..
and returned to Supt. of Emplovees bv -


SEMI-ANNUAL SALARY CHANGES
DEPT D VTE




















































































Position or Work
























































With
Company
Since








































CO..

?!
















fri

*a,


















Previous
Rate


















#3

(6 [3
r*-






























P




i














Date to
Take
Effect



180



HIRING THE WORKER



Class No




No.


ORGANIZATION LEDGER
DEPT POSITION .




S


AIiART




Name


Number


Date
Ent'd
Store


Date
Ent'd
Dept.


Reason for Change







































































































































































































































































FORM No. 42. SUMMARIZED RECORD OF EMPLOYMENT DEPART-
MENT

A sheet 8^ inches wide by 11 inches high, perforated on the left for loose-
leaf binding




FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS



181



FORM No. 43. SUMMARIZED RECORD OF EMPLOYMENT DEPARTMENT
The original is a Inrcce sheet, 12 in. wide and as high as convenient, ruled in usual ledger style and bound by the top
margin in loose-leaf holders


























































2
35


p ^^ DISMISSAL RECORD

R^ginning


























































z


























































I


























































I


























































\

3


























































I


























































\\

'"?


























































II!....


























































M.".',


























































Dlrf


























































wlihom


























































MITl!


























































M


























































tf


























































(IO, T


























































B.lltr


























































Kj




















































































































S*


























































..".'rt". ?


























































k.5" "


























































A*il"*fi


























































^b?U


























































vSi


























































s%s


























































S^r.


























































R^tuMd


























































SUMMARV



182



HIRING THE WORKER



i i



i



i i



! i !



i i



; - ;



CO
Q

O

o
w

H

H

H "3

IS



FORMS, BECORDS AND BOOKLETS 183

No. 31 and 32.) These requests are usually made out
in duplicate ; one copy is forwarded to the pay-roll de-
partment and the other is retained by the employment
office.

The important matters of transfer, voluntary leav-
ing, and discharge are arranged for by means of the
forms numbered 33 to 44 inclusive. Bequests for trans-
fers may originate with the employee, the foreman, the
department head, or the employment manager. After
receiving the approval of the proper authorities, some
form of notice such as Form No. 35 is sent to the pay-
master. A complete record of these changes is made
on Form No. 36 by Firm No. 24 (Chart No. 1, page 32).

If the employment department is to investigate cases
of discharge and voluntary leaving, some means must
be taken to insure that the employee's last pay cannot
be drawn without an interview with the employment
manager. Form No. 37 is intended for this purpose
and must be presented to the cashier before the last
pay check is issued.

A large department store uses Form. No. 38. In
practice, this is what usually takes place: A depart-
ment head suggests the removal of some individual
from his department. When a transfer can be effected,
the matter is settled in that way, but if such a course
is not advisable, the employment head makes a formal
recommendation for removal to the store manager.
With his approval, the removal order goes to the ac-
counting department.

Form No. 40 is used by a firm that allows its foremen
to retain the power to discharge. No adequate pro-
vision is made for investigation of discharge or volun-
tary leaving.

Numbers 41 to 44 are suggestive of record forms



184 HIRING THE WORKER

that are intended to summarize the work of the em-
ployment office. As in the case of all other forms, it
is essential that these record sheets be kept as simple
and as few in number as possible. At the same time,
it must be borne in mind that the collection of com-
plete data with a view to correcting faulty conditions,
if they exist, is one of the primary functions of this
department ; it will probably be wiser for the manager
to err on the side of collecting too many statistics than
to find his records incomplete in important particu-
lars when he comes to the study of his problems at the
close of the year.

Mr. J. W. Bancker, Assistant General Superintend-
ent of the Western Electric Company of Chicago, writ-
ing in The Annals for May, 1916 (page 270), has this
to say of reports :

Reports are of value in showing general conditions and ten-
dencies. In developing the reports issued by the employment
department we have endeavored to have them show the vol-
ume of work handled and the turnover and stability of the
force. The forms shown below are those of reports issued
regularly and in order that the figures may be comparable
as between months the data is filled in each month on a
tracing containing the figures for the previous months and
blueprint copies made and distributed to those interested.

REPORT M-428.8

Report M-428.8 is of value in showing the net gain on the
pay roll in relation to the total number of employees, also
the number of reinstatements and the percentage of such re-
instatements to the total number employed. These reinstate-
ments cover employes who have previously left the service
of the company and have been reemployed. The report is
also of value in showing an analysis of the employes leaving
the service of the company by the general classifications which
we use. This information is tabulated from the leaving no-
tices, form H. W. 421, previously referred to.



FORMS, RECORDS AND BOOKLETS 185

Western Electric Company, Inc.,
Employment Department.

REPORT OF WORK IN EMPLOYMENT
DEPARTMENT.

Feb. Total
January. to Dec. for Year



Men. Women. Total.
Applicants Interviewed

Employed
New

Reinstatements
Total

Did not Report for Duty
Net Addition to Pay Roll (1)

Left Employment
Left Own Accord
Laid Off Lack of Work
Suspended
Dismissed
Discharged
Deceased

Leave of Absence
Pensioned

Total (2)

New Gain on Pay Roll (1-2)

Per Cent Net Gain to Net Addition

Per Cent Reinstatements to Net Addition

Transfers between Departments



REPORT M-428.8



186 HIRING THE WORKER



i



i >
$ <i

02 H



OH ,?S 2

a i



CQ
O



^



Sd



3

2

W

K



^ g II

K^

9 ** O

p^ a? ^ ^i ^ tJD



|

il-I-- !

9 , > ^

O^l f^ ^

OQ ^ CO CD Oi rH CQ CO ^ W rH P>-

OC'brHCOCDO^rHC^CO'^LO O



FOBMS, EECORDS AND BOOKLETS 187

REPORT M-857.2

Report M-857.2 is an analysis of the length of service of
employees leaving the company. The report as regularly is-
sued is made up to show an analysis covering the works as
a whole, and also by the main divisions of the organization.
In addition to the regular reports, special reports of the same
general character are made up from time to time for the pur-
pose of studying conditions in particular departments.

REPORT A-857.1

Report A-857.1 is issued annually and shows the length of
service of all employees on the pay rolls as of January 1. As
indicated on the report, it shows the number of employees and
the percentages to total number of employees for each of the
periods indicated for the main divisions of the organization
and the works as a whole.



Standard Report No. A-857.1
January 1, 1916.

Western Electric Company, Inc.,
Clerical Branch.

LENGTH OF SERVICE OF EMPLOYEES.
Based on Pay Rolls of January 1st.

Clerical Branch. Production Branch. Operating Branch. Total.

Length of Men. Women. Men. Women. Men. Women. Men. Women
Service. No. % No. % No.* No. % No. % No. % No. % No. %

1 month

2 "
up to

11 months

1 year

2 "
up to

Maximum



Probably the most important single item to be
studied is the number of employees lost to the company
each year through various causes. These figures should



188 HIKING THE WOKKEK

be analyzed by departments and scrutinized with a
view to determining the fundamental reasons for un-
usual fluctuations. Some firms find it convenient to
plot these figures on a single sheet, comparing in per-
centages the turnover in the different departments.
It is quite necessary to accompany such a plot with
a statement of the total number employed in each de-
partment and with an explanation of any exceptional
conditions that may prevail.

In ordinary usage the term " labor turnover " has
been interpreted to mean the proportion existing be-
tween the total number of new employees brought into
the organization during the year and the average num-
ber employed during the year. Thus, if an establish-
ment that requires on the average 1000 persons to do
its work, takes on 1000 new employees in the course
of the year without increasing the total number em-
ployed, the labor turnover would be said to be 100 per
cent. Without some further data, such a statement is
of no great significance. A very careful distinction
must be drawn between objectionable discharge and
leaving chargeable to bad management, and the neces-
sary changes in the working force due to promotion or
transfer, sickness, old age, marriage in the case of
female employees, death, etc.

The preventable and undesirable changes in employ-
ment are the ones that the successful manager must
strive to overcome, and it is just this situation that is
undoubtedly the most difficult to remedy.

A committee of the Boston Employment Managers'
Association with Mr. E. H. Fish, of the Norton Com-
pany, Worcester, Mass., acting as chairman, compiled
forms No. 45 and 46 as a basis for tabulating labor
turnover. These blanks have the distinct advantage of



SPECIMEN BLANKS, RECORD FORMS 189

presenting an analysis of the several types of em-
ployees as well as showing clearly the important rea-
sons for leaving. It is only by some such means that
the tendency to overrate the ability of an employment
manager who allows his foremen to retain inefficient
help can be avoided. Form No. 45 is intended to be
used by each department as a record of the changes
during the month, while Form No. 46 summarizes the
turnover in each department of the entire plant over
any desired period of time.

The quotations given below are extracts from an ex-
planation of the blanks prepared by the chairman of
the committee :

' ' The classification 1 of learners was adopted because
of our feeling that we should face the facts fairly and
squarely as to whether we were hiring men whom we
expected to train for our own purposes, whether they
were men who we suspected had previous experience,
or whether we should make a distinction between them
and laborers whom we expect to be about equally effi-
cient at the beginning and at the end of their employ-
ment. This, too, gives us an opportunity to present to
the management of our several companies the number,
usually large, of employees for whom some kind of
training is needed before they become efficient, because
by thus showing this considerable number, it probably
will be possible to induce them to set aside certain por-
tions of the shop for specific training of new employees.

"Those who are transferred from another depart-
ment, because they have failed in the first, should be
kept entirely distinct because, while as a matter of fair-
ness to the individual it is usually desirable to give the

1 ' ' The Tabulating of Labor Turnover, " by E. H. Fish. The Annals.
May, 1917, page 33.



190



HIRING THE WORKER



F



ii



LNT SUMMARY



NUMBER



PER CENT



NUMBER



PER CENT



Deduct Transferred and Unavoidable (8 and 9).
Balance = Plant Turnover



by a Committee from the Boston Employment Man-



I WON
L y


r^


M


:=


40


(/>
s

u

I


Q


LAID- OFF


TRANSFERRED


UNAVOIDABLE




t rouDie Diteucr o


Jl
9


a

1

s




| To Decrease Force


Physical Reasons $


M

1

UJ


17


Physical Reasons


39


5

u!


1 Departmental 4.
Fluctuation


1 Pensioned or 4,
Superannuated "


^ x

5 ^

tl

Is
s


DEATH




44

II
UJ


1

|i


TOTAL ENTRANCES







































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































._




































~-































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































_ Last Day Plant
of th s Average

Month > for Month .



SPECIMEN BLANKS, KECORD FORMS 191

failures another opportunity in some other depart-
ment, the percentage of them who make good should
be kept track of, and that cannot be done unless we
know the actual number who were transferred under
such conditions.

" Under the head of 'Transfers on Account of De-
partmental Fluctuation,' we take care of cases where
one department finds itself temporarily out of the nor-
mal amount of work through lack of delivery of mate-
rial, or for any other reasons, and the people employed
there must be taken care of in some other department
instead of being allowed to drift outside.

"Probably in almost every concern, the largest num-
ber of assignable reasons will be those relating to
wages. It was thought that experience might show a
certain more or less definite percentage of people leav-
ing on account of their wages, which might indicate
a danger point, and that salaries or wages should be
increased.

"Under the heads of * Heavy, Wet, or Dusty/ etc., of
course are included conditions which are oftentimes in-
herent in the business itself and must be faced. Some-
times, however, the fact that we are able to show to
the management that a larger percentage of people
than they had supposed leave us on account of these
reasons, may indicate to them the desirability of spend-
ing considerable sums of money in remedying condi-
tions which they had been inclined to think were of
comparatively little importance. Under '111 Health'
are supposed to be included only such cases as are con-
tracted outside of employment, for such few cases of
sickness as come about through the fault of the com-
pany itself, or through defects that they might easily
remedy, should be classified under 'Transfers for Phy-
sical Beasons.'



192 HIKING THE WORKER

"Under the head of ' Location ' we have made two
divisions, one ' Due to the Family Moving from Town, '
which of course, usually applies to the children or to
the younger people in the family. We usually consider
that when the head of the family is the one who takes
the initiative in leaving town that it must be for some
other reason, and will be classified under another head.
Under the head of i Housing Conditions/ we place the
leaving of employees because they are unable to secure
the kind of tenements or houses which they desire, or
cases which often happen in rush times of their being
entirely unable to find accommodations at all. We
place this under the avoidable causes, because it is
something which concerns usually face in locating their
plants out of the center of large cities.

"Under the subheading of 'Men Laid Off/ we have
made the following divisions :

" 1. To decrease the force, probably made necessary
by lack of work, although it might be due to the fact
that additional machinery had been installed which re-
quired less labor to operate, or because the men already
on the job had become more efficient and were able to
do the work in a smaller group.

"2. Those laid off for physical reasons include those
who have become aged in the service of the company,
and those, who, as a result of some sickness, or accident,
had become incapacitated. It seems, however, that very
few should be placed under this column, as a man who
has become incapacitated as a result of the work which
he has done seems to be a proper object for further
care by the company, either by being placed in some
easier, less active job, or by being placed on some sort
of pension roll.






SPECIMEN BLANKS, KECOED FOEMS 193

6 i At the bottom of the sheet, it will be seen that there
is provision made for getting the percentage of leaving
for each one of a number of different causes. There is
first a footing for the total of each individual column.
By dividing that total by the average number of em-
ployees concerned, we arrive at the percentage leaving
for that particular department for that individual rea-
son, and for the time covered by the sheet. Then the
next totals are for the totals of the subheadings: that
is the new entrances, the re-employed and transferred,
those who left of their own accord, those who were dis-
charged, those who were laid off, those who were trans-
ferred, and the unavoidable. Then the third set of
totals and percentages is for those coming and those
leaving,, so that if this is applied to the whole plant,
the percentage of those leaving over the average num-
ber employed will give us the total turnover for the
whole plant. The sheet gives us a classification as fine
as anyone probably will require, so that a study of
these sheets will give a bird's-eye view of the whole
condition, and as finely subdivided an opportunity for
study as can be wished. The recapitulation of
these figures by departments and by plants is pro-
vided for, as may be noticed on the back of the two
forms."

Aside from the intrinsic value of this particular piece
of work, the example of this committee is worthy of
careful consideration. It is through just such co-opera-
tive efforts that hopeful solutions of our labor prob-
lems can be expected. So long as executives take the
selfish attitude that progressive ideas or new wrinkles
in management must be guarded as trade secrets, there
can be no real advancement. Many executives have
adopted the very much broader and saner point of view



194 HIRING THE WOEKEE

that regards the total gains from co-operation with
others, with open discussion and a fair amount of pub-
licity, as incomparably greater than the small losses
due to a competitor adopting some of the firm's pet
methods.



CHAPTER XI

RETAINING THE WORKER : A SUMMARY VIEW
OF LABOR TURNOVER

DURING an interview with the superintendent of a
textile Mill in a large New England city, a ques-
tion was raised as to the number of changes in em-
ployees during the year. The reply came with easy
assurance, " There are almost no changes whatever.
We have scores of people in our plant who have worked
for us for years. Working conditions are as good as we
know how to make them. Our employees are well satis-
fied with their present wages and there is practically no
discharge. In fact, there are no reasons for a large
turnover, and, while I have no figures to show it, I feel
confident that our employment fluctuations are a negli-
gible quantity."

The company employed about 850 persons, about half
of whom were women and girls. The product was con-
fined for the most part to two or three lines, all of them
commanding a ready and fairly stable market. Storage
at certain seasons of the year enabled the plant to run
at capacity, at all times. Health conditions were quite
satisfactory, much better than in the ordinary run of
textile mills. Evidence of good spirit between the man-
agement and the working force was frequently noted.
Wages were fairly good and there was little competi-
tion in the labor market because the textile mills were
the only important industry in the city. Attention had
been given to training women and girls in at least one
department.

195



196 HIEING THE WORKER

These were sound reasons for the superintendent's
statement, but there was, too apparently, another set of
circumstances whose implications he refused to admit.
All hiring, discharge, transfer, and the majority of
promotions and wage increases were in the hands of
foremen. A large number of the workers were of for-
eign birth. A considerable percentage could not talk
English, and many of them had taken no steps toward
naturalization. The case was cited of one department
where it had become necessary to promote a man to a
supervisory position requiring the keeping of certain
records. He could not read a word on the blanks to be
rilled out, but proved capable of recording the figures
after a mechanical, rule of thumb method. Doffer boys
faced the alternative of staying at the same task for
a lifetime or of seeking employment in another mill.
Transfers were rarely or never permitted. Wages
were paid on a simple piece work basis with no form
of bonus or efficiency reward. Complaints were not ex-
pected and suggestions were never encouraged. "We
thought of making some arrangement for receiving
complaints and suggestions, but concluded it would be
a nuisance. The foremen can take care of all that well
enough." Conferences of foremen or department
heads were unknown. No figures had ever been col-
lected regarding the cost of changing employees or the
number of changes occurring.

From all the data available it would appear that the
superintendent was far too sanguine. As compared
with other establishments of about the same size, it
seemed practically certain that his plant was suffering
a serious waste on the human side of its management.
Scores of superintendents and managers still share his
point of view, but happily this attitude is one that is






RETAINING THE WORKER 197

rapidly giving place to a better conception. There is
abundant proof that all large plants, unless they are
actually diminishing their output, must expect annu-
ally to take on new employees amounting to at least
25% to 30% of their average payroll. The usual con-
cern can be expected to carry about twice as many
names on its payroll as are needed at any one time to
fully man the organization. Estimates of the cost of
taking on new employees and training them up to the
common standard of efficiency as workers vary between
wide limits depending upon such factors as the nature
of the task, the condition of the labor market, and the
type of employee available. $30 to $100 per person is
a safe estimate ; some firms have placed it much higher
with good arguments to back their contentions.

Because of the difficulty attendant upon collecting
data, very few figures are available bearing upon either
the amount of drifting of employees from one plant to
another or the cost of selecting and training employees.
It is not uncommon to find plants that have no source
save the lists of names on the payroll from which in-
formation regarding the changes in employment can be
derived. Transfers, promotions, layoffs, voluntary
leaving, and discharge are inextricably confused. When
a really searching examination of the cost of changing
employees is attempted, the factors to be taken into
account are so numerous and so complex as to render
the investigation not only wearisome but prohibitive in
expense for many firms.

The first published record of any investigation of
these questions on a large scale is contained in a paper
by Magnus W. Alexander, 1 head of the training schools
of the General Electric Company. His figures repre-

1 See Chapter XII, page 217,



198 HIEING THE WOEKEE

sent conditions for the year 1912 in 12 American fac-
tories varying in size from 300 to over 10 000 employ-
ees. From the figures given in the table below it is
apparent that the group of firms under consideration
engaged about six and one-third times as many
persons during the year as were necessary to account
for the permanent increase in the total working force.
In other words, for every employee added to the work-
ing force, five were allowed to leave or were dis-
charged.

Employees on payroll at end of 1912 43 971

Employees on payroll at beginning of 1912 ... 37 274

Total increase in working force 6 697

Employees hired during 1912 42 571

Total increase in working force 6 697

Employees hired in excess of required increase 35 874

According to Mr. Alexander's conclusions, at least
22 031 of these changes were unnecessary.

By recourse to mortality tables, government statis-
tics, and the experience of mutual benefit associations
in factories, he secures the following tentative factors
applicable to workers in general :

Annual death rate 1%

Sick, requiring temporary or permanent

replacement 4%

Withdraw for unavoidable causes or are

discharged for good reasons 8%

Temporarily employed due to fluctua-
tion in production 8%

Total annual loss 21%

Seasonable efficiency of an employment

department 80%



KETAINING THE WORKEB 199

It would follow from these figures that, without any
permanent increase in the working force, an allowance
of 29.7% l of the number employed at the beginning of
each year would be required to account for unavoid-
able changes in personnel during the year. A turnover
larger than 30% would on these grounds appear to be
questionable from the standpoint of efficient manage-
ment.

To arrive at an estimate of the cost of training these
new employees, they were first roughly classified on
the basis of the training required for proficiency. The
expense was then distributed among these items :

(a) Clerical work in connection with the hiring

process.

(b) Instruction of new employees by foremen and

assistants.

(c) Increased wear and tear of machinery and

tools by new employees.

(d) Reduced rate of production during early

period of employment.

(e) Increased amount of spoiled work by new

employees.

By summing up the expense incurred in training
each group, Mr. Alexander finds a total of $831 030, or
an average cost of over $37 for each of the 22 031 per-
sons apparently unnecessarily engaged.

One of the interesting features of the estimated cost
of turnover given in this paper is the assignment of

Replacement of initial foTce=2l% of original force

on 80% basis =26.25%

Eeplaeement of replacements % of (21$ of replace-
ment on 80$ basis) = 3.44%

Total . =29.69%



200 HIRING THE WORKER

a total of $73.50 as the amount needed to replace a
machine operative requiring only a moderate degree
of skill. $33 of this amount is due to reduced produc-
tion, while $20 is paid out for instruction. Managers
were prepared to accept a cost of $48 for hiring and
training highly skilled mechanics, or the lower figure of
$8.50 for unskilled laborers, but most firms whose turn-
over among machine operatives is large had yet to
realize the importance of certain of the factors here
emphasized for the first time.

Mr. John M. Williams, Secretary for Fayette E.
Plumb, Inc., gives the following account of an effort to
determine the cost of turnover in a single department :

' i The department in question is run on a piece-work
basis and we have a plan whereby we pay each work-
man a day rate, in addition to a piece rate, until such
time as he becomes efficient enough to earn a fair week's
salary, which in this department is about six weeks,
although to reach the full pay of an expert worker takes
twelve weeks.

"Our basis is as follows:

' i The first week we pay thirty cents per hour flat.

' ' The second week we pay twenty cents per hour and
in addition pay for all production he turns out on the
basis of regular piece rates of such production.

' i The third week we pay fifteen cents per hour on the
same basis.

"The fourth week we pay twelve cents per hour on
the same basis.

"The fifth week we pay eight cents per hour on the
same basis.

"The sixth week we pay five cents per hour on the
same basis.



\
RETAINING THE WORKER 201

"At the end of that time the man should be self-sup-
porting. We credit this man with all work turned out,
and yet our records show that such a man costs us, in
excess day work charges, the cash sum of $42. This,
however, is only part of the cost, as in this particular
department the overhead expense is 130 per cent., or
for every dollar we pay in actual productive labor we
pay $1.30 for unproductive expense, such as foremen 's
wages, instructors' wages, inspectors' wages, power,
heat and light, repairs to machinery and fixtures (belts,
shafting, benches, frames, etc.), oils, grease and kin-
dred items and expense materials that have no connec-
tion with the actual material in the tools, such as emery,
grindstone, files, hand tools, etc.

' i In this department a skilled employee makes $24.00
per week and (on the basis of unproductive factory
expense of 130 per cent.) it costs $31.20 additional ex-
pense for his production. Our records show that a new
man will have an average earning power of only $10.00
per week over a period of the first 6 weeks. For each
skilled man who turns out $24.00 worth of productive
work per week we have an overhead expense of $31.20
in this department. Now for this $31.20 we secure
from a skilled worker a certain number of pieces of
productive work represented by his earnings of $24.00
per week. From a new man the average for 6 weeks
is less than one-half the work turned out by a skilled
worker, as shown by his average earnings of $10.00 per
week.

"It is not fair to s,ay that this man turning oit^only
$10.00 of productive ^abor will cost us as much in un-
productive factory expense as the man who turns out
$24.00 of productive labor, but there are certain charges
that must be assumed, that can properly be figured on



202 HIRING THE WORKER

the basis of a man charge, rather than a charge to a
unit of production.

i i The only credit the new man would have would be
in expense materials, that is, materials such as emery,
grindstones and kindred items, where the greater the
production, the greater consumption of such expense
materials should be. This is based on the assumption
that the learner will not use more of such expense ma-
terials in proportion than the experienced man, al-
though it is a well-known fact that this is not correct.
A learner always uses more expense material per unit
of production than an experienced man.

"In this department the factory expense material*
are 50 per cent, of the total factory expense charges,
and in our figures we are going to disregard any excess
charge for the extra amount of materials used by the
inexperienced man. This, however, leaves us with 50
per cent, of the unproductive expense of $31.20 which
we pay for the $24.00 production of the experienced
man, or $15.60 which we must charge to the $10.00 pro-
duction of the new man.- This charge of $15.60 only
covers such expense as foreman, instructors ' and in-
spectors ' wages, power, heat and light, repairs of all
kinds, etc., or such expenses as must be assumed by the
man unit no matter what his production is. In other
words, it costs as much in such expenses for the $10.00
production as it does for the $24.00 production.

"On the basis of an expense of $15.60 for a $10.00
production the percentage is 156 per cent., instead of
130 per cent., we pay for the $24.00 production, or a
net excess cost to us of 26 per cent., or $2.60 per week,
or for 6 weeks an excess of $15.60. During the follow-
ing 6 weeks, which complete the 12 weeks we figure are
necessary to produce an experienced man, this excess



RETAINING THE WORKER 203

cost becomes less due to increased production, but if
we cut it in half it is 6 weeks at $1.30, or a total of $7.80.

"These three amounts ($42, $15.60, $7.80) total an
excess cost to us of $65.40 to break in a new man in
this one department. These figures are based on the
assumption that every man we hire stays with us long
enough to become an experienced man, but our records
show that we hire 6 men for this job before we obtain
one who stays with us long enough to become skilled.
If we added to the $65.40 the actual cost of breaking
in and training the five men who do not stay, the final
cost to us of replacing an experienced man with a green
man, whom we have to train, would be so much higher
as to be staggering. As a matter of fact our records of
total excess cost in this department, not analyzed as I
have done, but taken in bulk and divided by the num-
ber of men trained over a given period, show the final
cost to us per experienced man to be over $100.00.

1 i In this analysis I have purposely left out of consid-
eration all expenses, such as interviewing and hiring
men, loss in defective work, and have charged nothing
for money invested in equipment which we lose on ac-
count of low production. You may not have the same
plan of payment, but by taking any plan you have and
figuring in all collateral charges, such as we have ig-
nored, you will find that the average of $40.00 per man,
mentioned by various authorities, is extremely low. ' '

Judging from the estimates of the few firms who re-
plied to the writer's questionnaire (see chart facing
page 32) Mr. Williams' figures would seem to be rea-
sonably conservative. On the basis of even $25 per
employee, the lowest estimate made, our annual losses
from this source are appalling. No reliable figures
have been compiled on the total turnover for the United



Number of
Aplications
for Help


Number of
Persons
Applied for


Number of
Applicants
for Places


Number
Referred to
Employmenl


Number
Actually
Employed


8176


42235


111 909


40776


37660


2419


225 663


255 373


175 928


149 954



204 HIKING THE WORKER

States, but some suggestions may be deduced from the
extent of the work carried on by the Division of Infor-
mation of the United States Bureau of Immigration.
The total operations throughout the country of this
federal labor bureau, including its co-operative activi-
ties with the state and municipal employment offices of
New York, are summarized in the table given below :

OPERATIONS OF THE DIVISION OF INFORMATION, BUREAU OF IMMIGRATION,
MAY, 1915, TO DEC., 1916 1



YEAR

3915, May to Dec,

8 months 8 176

1916, 12 months 72 419

These statistics represent the work carried on by 55
offices in as many large cities.

If we take the number of people applied for as
the basis, 225 663 persons in 1916, and multiply
by the conservative estimate of $30 for selecting
and training each new employee, we have the
astounding total of $6 769 890. An analysis made
by Boyd Fisher of turnover figures for 1916 in 57 De-
troit plants throws further light on the number of
workers involved. The average turnover for the group
of plants was found to be 252%. Mr. Fisher says of
his analysis: " These figures, of course, are very high
because labor conditions have been unprecedentedly
bad. The figures, however, are not as high as they
would be if they did not include the comparatively low
averages of plants having employment departments, as
well as plants which allow foremen to do their own hir-
ing and firing. An analysis of plants having labor de-

1 Adapted from table, page 211, Monthly Review of the U. S. Labor
Statistics, Feb., 1917, Vol. IV, No. 2.



RETAINING THE WORKER 205

partments shows that, roughly averaged, the plants
having no employment department hired three men to
every two hired by those which did have employment
departments.

' 'I do not attempt to give more exact figures because
I am somewhat skeptical of the correctness of many of
the reports which came to me ; particularly from plants
that have no regular employment department. I sus-
pect that if we had entirely reliable figures from all
plants the record of those having no employment de-
partments would show up even worse than they do."

Some interesting figures have been collected by the
New Jersey State Department of Labor and Statistics.
Data are presented to show the actual output of 2 556
firms as compared with their production if they were
operated at capacity. For the year 1912, considered a
normal industrial year, these concerns averaged only
about 74% of their total capacity, thus entailing an
annual loss of $363 000 000.

It is certainly safe to assume that the total annual
cost of unstable employment is exceedingly large and
of such vital importance as to demand careful atten-
tion because of its economic aspects alone.

From a social standpoint the question is equally
grave. A thorough analysis of the situation brings us
at once face to face with some of the most fundamental
problems of the time. One of the best statements of
these issues is to be found in the Supplement to the
Annals for May, 1916, entitled "Steadying Employ-
ment. " It was first published by the City of Philadel-
phia as the report of Professor Joseph H. Willits to
Director Cooke of the Department of Public Works, and
is the result of nearly a year's careful investigation
of Philadelphia's labor conditions. Professor Willits



206 HIRING THE WORKER

concludes that there exists in Philadelphia as in most
industrial centers, "a serious unemployment situation
firmly rooted, growing, detrimental to employer,
worker and community, even in the best of industrial
years/'

The city's worst offenders in producing employment
changes, and thus finally unemployment, were found to
be the textile industry, especially the manufacturers of
lace and lace curtains, carpets, cloth, and hosiery, the
clothing industry, manufacturers of electric and steam
railway equipment and ships, and the employers of
longshoremen and dock hands. Two causes were in the
main responsible for permanent unemployment among
textile workers:

(1) Trade conditions constantly vary with respect to
the demand for certain types of fabric. Products no
longer meeting with a ready sale must give place to
others. If the firm cannot readily readjust itself, an
excess of employees results and long periods of part
time employment or unemployment ensue.

(2) Instead of manufacturing standard lines to be
stored in slack seasons, most concerns make up goods
only on orders. This results in long hours and over-
time during busy seasons with intervening periods of
partial unemployment or lay offs.

Very much the same causes were operative in pro-
ducing irregularities among garment manufacturers.
Styles change three or four times during the season,
and instead of two periods of maximum production
every year, it is now the common practice to have a
succession of sudden spurts of activity followed by
unemployment scattered throughout the year. During
the fall of 1914 there were four distinct changes in the
style of women's coats and suits.



RETAINING THE WORKER 207

Eelatively few of the operatives laid off were able
to obtain any other employment, a situation which has
been made much worse by the change from two long
dull seasons when many workers were laid off, to nu-
merous periods of partial activity spent in the factory
waiting for an occasional order to come in.

Irregularities of employment in the group of indus-
tries supplying equipment to railroad and steamship
companies are ascribed to the practice of these com-
panies of buying in large quantities during favorable
seasons. Over 40 000 persons are engaged in these
plants, a number sufficiently large to affect very seri-
ously the general prosperity of the city.

The difficulty of securing employment during the
winter months is greatly accentuated in Philadelphia
and Baltimore because of their proximity to the large
fruit and vegetable districts of South Jersey, Delaware,
and Maryland. Every summer thousands of laborers,
chiefly Italians, take their families to work in the truck
gardens, berry fields and canneries for a season of two
to five months. With the coming of fall, these laborers
return to add to the throngs of job seekers who are be-
ing laid off from the city's slackened industries.

Conditions in Philadelphia are fairly representative
of other centers. Each city has special unemployment
problems of its own, but on the whole very much the
same conditions obtain throughout the country. The
Federal Industrial Eelations Commission recently
pointed out that in sixteen occupations of the cloak
and suit industry of New York City the maximum num-
ber of employees during any week of the year was only
1 952. The actual number on the payrolls, however,
was about 4 000. Reliable authorities have estimated
that every year in normal times there are over 3 000 000



208



HIEING THE WORKER



able-bodied men out of work for at least three months.
Professor Willits enumerates some of the ways in
which this uncertainty of employment affects the work-
ers. The most important results may be summarized
as follows :

(a) A serious reduction of the wage scale. Esti-
mates of yearly earnings based on piece rates, or aver-
age daily or weekly earnings are of little consequence.
Unless actual figures covering a long period of time
are brought to the attention of those whose business it
is to adjust wage schedules, numerous maladjustments
are certain to occur even with a well-intentioned man-
agement. Because the opportunity to use his full ener-
gies is not afforded, the man whose income ought to be
$1 000 to $1 200 really draws only $500 to $1 000 per
year.

(b) Thrift is not encouraged because incomes are
irregular and it becomes impossible for the family to
plan its expenditures wisely.

(c) The efficiency of workers is decreased due to
irregular habits. A tendency to avoid anything like a
steady job becomes manifest.

(d) Men are forced to take anything that offers dur-
ing dull periods. Workers for this reason grow hope-
less and tend to drift into poorer classes of employment
instead of seeking 'advancement.

(e) Social standards are lowered. "A series of in-
terviews with Kensington textile workers is one steady
story of used up savings, of increased debts, and of
*half time' for four, six or nine months.'' Families
are forced to break up, crime increases, attendance in
the public schools falls off seriously.

(f ) Health is impaired. Parents are unable to fur-
nish food, fuel and clothing during the severest winter



RETAINING THE WORKER 209

weather. ' ' What famine and black plague were to the
middle ages, so is unemployment to the modern indus-
trial world. "

The principal losses to employers from unemploy-
ment and from changing employees may be expected
to fall under some one of the following headings :

1. REDUCED OUTPUT CAUSED BY

(a) Eunning at less than capacity.

(b) Demoralization of the organization.

(c) Deduced efficiency due to degeneration of the

workers in spirit, energy and ambition.

(d) Lowered efficiency of employees who are laid

off for some time. It may take from one to
three weeks for a worker to get back to nor-
mal efficiency.

(e) Machines turn out less than the standard

amount when operated by unskilled hands.

(f) Added wear and tear on equipment due to

changing operatives.

(g) Cost of excess plant required because of fail-

ure to operate continuously at full capacity,
(h) Increased amount of imperfect work and
greater cost of materials due to inexperi-
enced employees.

2. EXPENSE OF SECURING AND TRAINING NEW EM-

PLOYEES.

(a) Clerical work, time of those engaged in select-

ing employees, advertising, overhead
charges of employment work.

(b) Instruction.

3. INABILITY TO REDUCE OVERHEAD CHARGES, SUPER-

VISORY FORCE, INSTRUCTORS, ETC., TO A MINI-
MUM.



210 HIKING THE WOKKER

4. EFFECT ON GENEEAL MAKKETS.

(When unemployment is widespread, many firms
are likely to suffer because of the reduced
purchasing power of the community and the
general feeling of a lack of confidence in
financial security.)

Before these conditions can be intelligently met,
there must be a sustained co-operative effort to dis-
cover the real causes and the best remedies. Investi-
gations on a large scale are always helpful and are
necessary in that the individual concern is thus brought
to see its relationship to the whole problem, but the
primary necessity is that each industrial unit make a
conscientious survey of its own employment. In the
preceding chapters some of the benefits to be derived
from centralizing responsibility for employment have
been pointed out. None of these is of greater signifi-
cance than the opportunity afforded for a scientific
analysis of the factors determining excessive labor
turnover and unemployment. The writer has yet to
hear of a firm that has entered upon a campaign for
improving its methods in this field without reaping am-
ple benefits. It has been the uniform experience among
the firms visited or questioned that the establishment
of an employment department has resulted almost im-
mediately in changes for the better not only in the vol-
ume of labor turnover, but in numerous other direc-
tions affecting the efficiency of every organization.
Through better knowledge of its own problems, the
plant is much better qualified to co-operate with other
concerns in meeting common difficulties. We are only
faintly commencing to realize the part to be taken by
municipal, state and federal governments in dealing



RETAINING THE WORKER 211

with unemployment. Legislation regarding such mat-
ters as the conduct of public work, the regulation of
employment bureaus, industrial insurance and pen-
sions, and the encouragement of public charities ought
to be based on a very much better understanding of the
basic facts upon which policies ought to rest.

Mr. Boyd Fisher, Vice-President of the Detroit Ex-
ecutives 7 Club, has prepared a thoroughgoing state-
ment of the most important means so far devised for
reducing labor turnover. The summary of his sugges-
tions, quoted in part below, embodies the successful ex-
perience of numerous large concerns throughout the
country. The methods therein named are to be highly
recommended as a basis for further study and experi-
ment by managers who desire seriously to attack this
problem.



HOW TO EEDUCE LABOE TUENOVEE

1. PRELIMINARY MEASURES :

a Attempt to learn true cost of turnover in your
plant in order to know how much you can afford
to spend to eliminate it.

b Keep adequate records as means of analysis of

sources and causes of turnover.
(1) Historical and statistical record separate
for each employee including date of em-
ploying or transferring, rates, earnings,
bonuses, defective work, complaints by or
against man, absence, tardiness, periodic
certification of foremen, date of quitting
and reasons.



212 HIRING THE WORKER

(2) Turnover by departments, by causes, by
weeks and months and years, and by
classes of skills.

(3) High and low earnings by departments.

(4) Defective work by departments.

(5) Absence and tardiness by departments.

2. FUNDAMENTAL REMEDIES :

a Hire the right men for the jobs.

(1) Work up good application list which is a
"prospect file" by vigilant search of
sources of supply, by industrial census of
your vicinity, by courteous and hospitable
treatment of applicants at all times, and
by getting a good name for your factory
even from men who have quit you.

(2) Using your present work force as a "pros-
pect file," co-operate with agencies for in-
dustrial education, supplementing them
with apprentice training, to build up a
system of promotion and transfer.

(3) Secure time to examine new applicants
thoroughly by receiving advance notice of
need and by using adequate assistance in
employment department.

(4) Hire in accordance with written specifica-
tions for each job, prepared at leisure, and
after due consultation and criticism.

(5) Examine physically with view both to gen-
eral fitness, to suitability for specified
job, and to need of later up-building.

(6) Visit homes of desired applicants.

(7) Check up records of previous employments.



RETAINING THE WORKER 213

(8) Hire only those who can earn an adequate
wage.

6 Pay an adequate wage.

(1) Study cost of and facilities for decent liv-
ing for each workman and use results in
setting base rates.

(2) Give special study to cases of inefficient
workmen, to see if money troubles are af-
fecting them.

(3) Centralize and pay off at discount, debts of
overburdened workmen.

(4) Promote mutual aid association.

(5) Establish legal aid bureau.

(6) Pay weekly.

(7) Discharge alcoholics.

(8) Instruct in proper use of income.

(9) Encourage thrift and home-building.
(10) Vvliere special causes for increased living
cost obtain, attack them, as by co-opera-
tive stores, housing measures, etc.

c Provide steady work.

(1) Give piece-workers steady flow of material
during the day, by proper scheduling sys-
tem.

(2) Regularize production throughout the year
to minimize lay offs and shut-downs.

(3) Abolish the annual physical inventory, in
favor of perpetual inventory with contin-
uous checks.

(4) Make repairs promptly and provide a suffi-
cient reserve supply of tools.



214 HIKING THE WORKER

d Don't fire hastily.

(1) Check up foremen whose departments show
high turnover records through men's quit-
ting.

(2) Don't let foremen discharge at all.

(3) Give unsatisfactory men at least one chance
through transfer.

(4) Establish employment committee to review
cases of discharge where men appeal.

(5) Establish foremen's club to study ways of
getting along with men.

(6) Interview, before paying off, men who quit
voluntarily.

3. SUPPLEMENTARY EEMEDIES :
a Start new men right.

(1) Make clearly understood agreement as to
starting pay and schedule of advances.

(2) Introduce new men to bosses, to fellow
workers, and to physical surroundings,
and acquaint with rules and facilities of
plant.

(3) Instruct men thoroughly in new task.

(4) Advance money or meal tickets to beginners
short of funds,

(5) Help beginners speedily to get on piece or
bonus rates.

b Promote physical efficiency.

(1) Establish physical department.

(2) Examine all workmen periodically and pro-
vide machinery for following up those
found to be defective.

(3) Provide adequate light, heat and ventilation.



BETAINISTG THE WOEKEB 215

(4) Reduce noise, dirt, and noxious odors and

fumes.

(5) Purify oils, waste, and other supplies.
(6) Purify drinking water.
(7) Provide sanitary lockers, wash rooms, and

toilets.

(8) Insist upon good teeth and good eyes by us-
ing, at least on part time, the services of
a dentist and an oculist.
(9) Have nurses or doctors visit those kept

home by illness.

(10) Provide mid-workday meals at plant.
(11) Provide good tools and fatigue minimizing

equipment.

(12) Shorten work-hours while securing fair out-
put.
(13) Provide at least three rest periods during

the day.

(14) Arrange for yearly vacations with pay for
all employees. This can be on the basis of
an efficiency record or punctuality record.
(15) Promote athletics.

c Foster good habits.

(1) Investigate causes of unexcused absence.

(2) Fix strict penalties for tardiness and unex-
cused absence.

(3) Bonus regular attendance.

(4) Establish pay system that encourages and
rewards accuracy, high output and punc-
tuality.

d Give all employees a hearing.

(1) Hear complaints at all times, no matter how
put forward.



216 HIKING THE WOEKEB

(2) Hold regular shop meetings by departments
and by divisions to hear men's ideas.

(3) Establish system for considering written
suggestions from men; and rewarding
with commendation, prizes, or promotion,
all thought worthy, and acknowledging all
such suggestions without exception.

(4) Encourage all forms of self -directed organi-
zation, whether of athletic, social, or co-
operative enterprises and provided such
organization is not subject to the orders
from persons outside of your plant and
contrary to its interests.

e Make work in your plant a sufficient career.

(1) Establish system for granting unasked-for
pay increases as deserved.

(2) Discover ambitions of men for future trans-
fers and promotions.

(3) Help train men to new tasks.

(4) Transfer with some liberality.

(5) Encourage men to improve general educa-
tion by reimbursing for outlay on courses
of study as completed.

/ Provide for future of all workmen.

(1) Purchase group insurance for all workmen.

(2) Pension disabled or superannuated em-
ployees.

(3) Share profits on some form of stock-sharing
basis, possibly in lieu of pension scheme.



CHAPTER XII

SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT
MANAGEMENT AND BELATED TOPICS

BY JOHN M. BREWER AND ROY WILLMARTH KELLY

ALEXANDER, MAGNUS W. "Waste in Hiring and Dis-
charging Employees. " Scientific American Supple-
ment No. 2041, Feb. 13, 1915, pp. 102-103.

A statistical study of preventable waste, with proposals
for remedies, by an experienced factory manager.

"Measuring the Worker's Physical Fitness for
His Job." Industrial Management, Vol. LII, No. V,
Jan., 1917, pp. 493-503.

A popular discussion of the need for physical and medi-
cal examinations and the methods in common use.

AMERICAN ACADEMY OF POLITICAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCE.
"Personnel and Employment Problems in Industrial
Management." Annals of the Academy, Vol. LXV,
No. 154, May, 1916. Editors MEYER BLOOMFIELD and
JOSEPH H. WILLITS.

Contains over thirty important articles by employment
managers, factory superintendents, educational leaders,
and special investigators. The best collection of articles
obtainable on the subject.

Part I. The Place of the Human Element in Industrial
Management.

Part II. The Functionalized Employment Department.

Part III. Unnecessary Hiring and Firing of Em-
ployees.

217



218 HIRING THE WORKER

Part IV. The Securing, Selection and Assigning of

Employees.
Part V. The employee at Work.

- "Stabilizing Industrial Employment. ' ' The An-
nals, May, 1917, Vol. LXXI, Whole No. 160.

Contains a number of noteworthy papers on the subject
of preventing excessive labor turnover through the develop-
ment of better methods of personnel management. ''The
methods of this science are not standardized. This volume
is edited with the hope of contributing to the forward move-
ment of this science by presenting a description of the work
of some plants or individuals who have paid conspicuous
attention to this subject/'

Part I. Survey of Methods to be Used in 'Reduction
of Labor Turnover.

Part II. The Analysis of Turnover.

Part III. Reducing Labor Turnover in certain Plants.

Part IV. Physical Conditions as Factors in Reduction
of Turnover.

Part V. Employees' Voice in Management.



i t



The Present Labor Situation." The Annals,
Vol. LXIX, Whole No. 158, January, 1917. 302 pp.

The scope of this issue is indicated by the following
partial table of contents. Part I. Certain aspects of the
labor situation: Problem of railway trainmen's wages;
case of railroad employees for an eight-hour day; issues
in the street railway strike in New York City. Part II.
"Wages, working conditions, and hours of labor: Present
trend of real wages ; effects of the legal minimum wage for
women; social insurance; welfare service for employees;
better living conditions for employees and their relation
to stability in employment; immigration and American
labor ; psychology of floating workers ; hours of labor ; maxi-
mum vs. minimum hour legislation. Part III. Public em-
ployment bureaus: progress of the public employment
bureaus ; a Federal labor reserve board for the unemployed.
Part IV. Some aspects of collective bargaining: Extent of
trade-unionism; labor's share of the social product; doc-
trine that labor is a commodity ; evolution of legal remedies
as a substitute for violence and strikes. Part V. Compul-



BIBLIOGBAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 219

sory arbitration or investigation before strikes or lockouts :
Advantages and defects of Compulsory arbitration ; Cana-
dian legislation concerning industrial disputes ; attitude of
organized labor toward the Canadian industrial disputes
investigation act. Part VI. Voluntary arbitration and con-
ciliation in private businesses : Trend of voluntary concilia-
tion and arbitration in labor disputes; revised protocol in
the dress and waist industry ; experience of Hart, Schaffner
& Marx with collective bargaining ; arbitration plan of Wil-
liam Feline's Sons Co. ; methods of making local agreements
employed by the Pattern Makers' Association of Chicago.
Part VII. Fixing hours and wages in the railroads and
other public utilities ; Federal arbitration legislation ; legis-
lation concerning the railroad service; railroad hours-of-
labor law; attitude of the railroad brotherhoods toward
hours of labor and wages; Government arbitration and
mediation.

ANDREWS, IKENE OSGOOD. "The Eelation of Irregular
Employment to the Living Wage for Women. ' ' New
York, American Association for Labor Legislation,
1915.

A statistical study of the rate of wages paid and the
actual earnings received by women in such industries as
paper box, clothing, and candy manufacturing and book-
binding, offers convincing proof that the regularity of
employment as well as the rate of pay must be considered
in minimum-wage discussions if we are to establish a real
living wage for women.

ANDBEWS, JOHN B. ' ' Health Insurance. ' ' Address be-
fore the American Association for Labor Legisla-
tion, Washington, D. C., May, 1916. 13 pp.

Deals with the possibilities of industrial health insurance,
basing the claims upon data concerning the extent and cost
of sickness, responsibility for sickness, and the inadequacy
of existing health agencies. The paper contains a summary
and a discussion of the model bill for health insurance pre-
pared in 1915 by the American Association for Labor Legis-
lation. Bulletin 212 of the U. S. Bureau of Labor Statis-
tics contains a later revision of this bill.



220 HIRING THE WORKER

ARNOLD, HORACE LUCIEN and FAUROTE, FAY LEONE.
"Ford Methods and the Ford Shops." Engineering
Magazine Co., Publishers, 1915.

There is a chapter on the Ford Employment office, de-
scribing the methods in detail.

AYRES, LEONARD P. " Psychological Tests in Voca-
tional Guidance. ' ' In Bureau of Education Bulletin,
1914. No. 14, "Vocational Guidance," pp. 33-37.
Also Bulletin No. E128 of the Eussell Sage Founda-
tion. Also Journal of Educational Psychology, Vol.
IV, No. 4, Apr., 1913, pp. 232-237.

A summary of attempts so far made with the author's
hopes for the future. Though many of the writer's state-
ments are sound and illuminating, on the whole the tone
is too sanguine, both as to what has been found out and
what may be expected in the near future. Many subse-
quent writers have quoted this article with no attempt to
verify its conclusions.

BLACKFORD, KATHERINE M. H. and NEWCOMB, ARTHUR.
"The Job, The Man, The Boss." Doubleday, Page
and Co., 1914.

The first six chapters contain some excellent comments
on the general features of employment management: the
need for a spirit of harmony; ways of bringing about co-
operative effort ; reasons for the creation of a separate em-
ployment office; the benefits to the organization of a cen-
tralized system of employment supervision. The re-
mainder of the book sets forth in detail Dr. Blackford's
methods of selecting employees. Much of her reasoning
is based on unproved assumptions from Biology and other
sciences. Even if the generalizations be correct, and as-
suming that they can ever be substantiated by a sufficient
number of cases observed by a large number of competent
observers, it is not at all certain that they can be sucess-
fully taught to employment managers or vocational coun-
selors, or that their adoption is not likely to work an un-
necessary hardship in many cases.



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 221

BLOOMFIELD, MEYER. (Ed.) See American Academy,
above,

- "The New Profession of Handling Men." An-
nals of the American Academy of Political and So-
cial Science, 1915, Publication No. 928, p. 6.

A statement of the aims and methods of the employ-
ment manager, and of the employment managers' associa-
tions, with a discussion of the benefits to be derived from
this new effort at guidance within the occupation.

Mr. Bloomfield gives an account of the founding of the
Employment Managers' Association of Boston and refers
to some of the more striking failures in methods now in
use for selecting employees.



BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS. Monthly Review.

A bulletin of current events in the field of labor. Full
of important information.

- "Labor Laws and Their Administration in the
Pacific States," Whole No. 211; Labor Laws of the
United States Series, No. 9.



A valuable resume of recent legislation and the adminis-
tration of labor laws in the Pacific States. There are es-
pecially significant chapters on child labor, the safety and
health of the worker, and accident compensation.

- Proceedings of Employment Managers' Confer-
ences. 1916. Whole Numbers 196 and 202. Employ-
ment and Unemployment Series, Nos. 3 and 4.

These two bulletins contain important papers and ad-
dresses on the functions and methods of employment mana-
gers, read before the Minneapolis Session, Jan., 1916, and
the Boston Session, May, 1916. They duplicate in most
particulars the material in The Annals, May, 1916.



222 HIRING THE WORKER

" Short Unit Courses for Wage Earners, and a

Factory School Experiment." Bulletin Whole No.
159, Misc. Series No. 6, 1915; by W. A. O'LEARY,
CHARLES A. PROSSER, and CHARLES H. WINSLOW.

The first study, by the first two authors named, gives a
general and detailed view of what is being accomplished in
part-time and short-course work. The second describes the
gain to workers and employers in an actual experiment.

"The British System of Labor Exchanges, " by

B. LASKER. Employment and Unemployment Se-
ries, No. 5, Whole Number 206. October, 1916.

An excellent account of the national system of labor ex-
changes established for the United Kingdom by the Labor
Exchanges Act of 1909. The report describes the methods
in use, gives the results of an investigation of the various
effects of the exchanges on labor conditions, and summa-
rizes the advantages to workers, employers, and to the State.

BURLINGAME, LUTHER D. "Americanizing a Thousand
Men." Industrial Management, June 1917, Vol.
LIII, No. 3, page 385.

Describes in detail the methods by which the Brown
and Sharpe Mfg. Co., Providence, B. I., prevailed upon
all but 206 of their 1 312 alien employees to take out the
citizenship papers for which they were eligible. The article
contains many suggestions for a successful campaign of
Americanization and education.

CALIFORNIA BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS. "Sixteenth
Biennial Report," 1913-1914, State Printing Office,
1914.

Interesting examples of the settlement of labor dis-
putes, data on employment agencies, labor unions, and
manufactures. A description of the lumber and cement
industries in the state. This is a sample of the vocational
importance such reports are likely to assume.



BIBLIOGEAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 223

CLAKK, W. IRVING, JR., M.D. "Medical Supervision of
Factory Employees: Result of Five Years' Experi-
ence. " Journal of the American Medical Associa-
tion, Jan. 6, 1917. Vol. LXVIII, No. 1, page 5.

Dr. Clark's paper read before the American Medical
Association in Detroit, June, 1916, is based on five years'
experience in the Department of Health and Sanitation of
the Norton Company, Worcester, Mass., an organization
employing about 2 800 persons. The paper deals with such
important matters as methods of examination, reasons for
rejection, defects found in employees that do not bar them
from employment, and handling of accidents.

CLOPPEB, EDWAKD N. and HINE, LEWIS W. ' i Child La-
bor in the Sugar-Beet Fields of Colorado." The
Child Labor Bulletin, Vol. 4, No. 4, Feb., 1916, Part
I, pp. 176-206.

An intensive study of seasonal labor in its effects on
schooling. Well told.

COHEN, JULIUS H. "Law and Order in Industry."
Macmillan Co., 1916.

A review of the protocol which closed the strike of 1910
in the cloak and suit industry of New York City. De-
scribes the cloak and suit industry, the strike of 1910, and
the administration of the protocol. A very important part
of the book is the portion devoted to the work of the joint
board of sanitary control. The protocol should receive the
careful consideration of all who are interested in employ-
ment problems.

CBOZIER, GENERAL WILLIAM. "Scientific Management
in Government Establishments. " Vol. I, No. 5,
Bulletin of the Society to Promote the Science of
Management.

The introduction of the Taylor system in the Watertown
Arsenal in Massachusetts aroused a storm of opposition
from labor leaders throughout the country. General Crozier



224 HIRING THE WORKER

analyzes the features of the system in use and justifies its
retention from grounds of economy as well as fair treat-
ment of the men.

DEABLE, N. B. "Industrial Training." P. S. King
and Son. London, 1914.

The report of an extensive investigation of industries
employing boys in London. Deals with the manner in
which boys enter occupations, how they learn their trades,
technical and trade schools, unemployment, wasteful re-
cruiting of trades and occupations, and offers suggestions
for improvement. A valuable addition to the literature of
this subject.

DETROIT EXECUTIVES CLUB, Welfare Managers Group.
" Eecommended Standard Practice on Medical Su-
pervision in Detroit Plants. ' > Eeport presented Feb-
ruary 7, 1917. Eeprinted in The Annals, May, 1917,
Vol. LXXI, Whole No. 160, pages 96-106.

The findings of this report have been recommended as
standard practice by the members of the Welfare Group of
the Detroit Executives Club. Personal visits were made
by a committee of physicians and welfare workers to over
30 plants. The recommendations cover a wide range of
subjects : sanitation, health and accident supervision, physi-
cal and medical examinations, lunch rooms and recreation
facilities, factory nurses. Especially helpful are the sec-
tions on physical examination and sanitary arrangements*

EMERSON, HARRINGTON. "Efficiency as a Basis for
Operation and Wages. " The Engineering Magazine
Co., Publishers, 1909.

A book on scientific management. There is some discus-
sion of economic principles: the movement is here repre-
sented as contributing to the welfare of society and the
worker.

EMERSON, HARRINGTON. "The Twelve Principles of
Efficiency. " The Engineering Magazine Co., 1912.

This is a book devoted to the psychological and moral
aspects of management and not merely to mechanical ideals.



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 225

Its thesis is that effective organization is necessary to any
kind of success, whether in war, business, or ethical under-
takings. The twelve principles are as follows: clearly de-
fined ideals; common sense; competent counsel; discipline;
the fair deal ; reliable, immediate, adequate, and permanent
records; dispatching; standards and schedules; standard-
ized conditions; standardized operation; written standard-
practice instructions; efficiency reward. The author deals
with the need of paying attention to these principles and
suggests means of applying them, without, however, work-
ing out in all cases the details of the method. The book
is full of examples drawn from the mind of a man with
wide experience and deep human sympathy.

EESKINE, LILLIAN and KOACH, JOHN. i ' The Standardi-
zation of Working Essentials." The Annals, May,
1916, Vol. LXXI, Whole No. 160.

A practical treatment of standard equipment and
methods written by experts. The paper deals with ventila-
tion, dust removal, fume removal, lighting, washing and
dressing facilities, drinking water, and lunch rooms.

FACTORY MANAGEMENT SERIES. "Executive Control."
A. W. Shaw Co., 1915.

Contains a chapter on " Manning the Organization."
Emphasizes the training of executives and deals with the
selection of foremen and department heads. The two
books of this series here listed are written in a popular
style and tend to be superficial. Credence is given, at least
by implication, to several very doubtful schemes of selec-
tion.

"Labor." A. W. Shaw Co., 1915.



Based on the work of a number of prominent authorities
in the employment field. The following are chapter head-
ings of interest to employment managers and vocational
counselors: Hiring and Advancing Workers; Starting
Men Right; How to Pick the Best Man; Piece Work;
Profit Sharing. See note on Executive Control above.

FAUROTE, FAY LEONE. See ARNOLD, HORACE LUCIEN.



226 HIEING THE WOBKER

FEISS, RICHARD A. "Personal Relationship as a Basis
of Scientific Management. " Bulletin of the Society
to Promote the Science of Management, Vol. 1, No.
6, Nov., 1915, pp. 5-25. Also in Annals of the Ameri-
can Academy, May, 1916.

Mr. Feiss represents a company under a new type of
management that fully realizes the importance of person-
nel and that has developed several tentative solutions for
the problem of caring for the individual workman to the
best advantage of every one concerned. The article de-
scribes in detail the work of the Employment Department
of the Clothcraft Shops at Cleveland, Ohio. Particularly
noteworthy features are : Care in selecting employees who
are in harmony with the spirit of the organization ; super-
vision of home conditions and health through nurses and
physicians; opportunity for transfer and try-out to other
departments of the factory; co-operation with the selling
branch to keep down lay-offs and dull seasons. All matters
which pertain to the hiring, discharge, promotion, trans-
fer, general welfare and development of employees are
functions of the Employment and Service Department.

* ' ' Scientific Management Applied to the Steadying

of Employment and its Effect in an Industrial Es-
tablishment." American Academy of Political and
Social Science, Annals, Sept., 1915, Publication
No. 920.

A brief statement of the methods in use in the employ-
ment department of the Clothcraft Shops at Cleveland,
Ohio, and the fundamental principles involved. Nearly all
of the material is restated and amplified in the longer pa-
per by Mr. Feiss referred to above.

FILENE CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION. "A Thumbnail
Sketch of the Filene Co-operative Association."
Published by Wm. Filene 's Sons Co., Boston, 1915.

A statement of the activities of the association, with a
diagram of the organization, and a brief history. This
shows the varied activities possible in an establishment.



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 227

There is a large share of self-direction in the management
of the association.

FISHER, BOYD. ' ' How to Keduce Labor Turnover. ' ' An
address before the Philadelphia Association for the
Discussion of Employment Problems by the Vice-
President of The Executives' Club, of Detroit, Mich.,
Jan. 8, 1917. Eeprinted in The Annals, May, 1917,
Vol. LXXI, Whole No. 160.

A thoroughgoing analysis of the reasons for excessive
turnover with suggestions for reduction. Mr. Fisher is an
experienced employment manager who has formulated a
comprehensive plan for attacking the problem of building
up a stable working force.

"Determining Cost of Turnover of Labor. " The



Annals, May, 1917, Vol. LXXI, Whole No. 160.

A proposed method for computing the cost of changing
employees, intended to be made the basis for research. The
paper contains a very full outline of the numerous items to
be taken into account.

FULD, LEONHARD FELIX. Service Corporations. U. S.
Bureau of Education, Bulletin, 1916, No. 34, 73 pp.

The material of the booklet is arranged under four head-
ings: Service instruction in department stores; service in-
struction of telephone companies; typical service instruc-
tion in other industries; service instruction of the City of
New York. Although brief, Mr. Fuld's pamphlet is a most
helpful contribution to the subject of industrial education.
The methods described have been found successful by
large corporations. There is much illustrative material in
the shape of efficiency bulletins, outlines of courses, and
methods of instruction. There is a short section on health
supervision and physical education.

FULLERTON, HUGH S. " Getting and Holding a Job."
American Magazine, Vol. LXXXIII, No. 3, Mar.,
1916.

Gives a statement of some of the tests being used in



228 HIKING THE WOKKER

some Chicago establishments. They are simple psychologi-
cal tests, but there is so far no proof that they bear a
sufficient relation to vocational ability to justify their use.
Some other tests described are examples of the kinds of
judgments which are unsafe to make in hiring men. Such
an article is likely to be misleading.

GANTT, H. L. "Industrial Leadership." Yale Uni-
versity Press, 1916.

A collection of five addresses delivered in the Page Lec-
ture Series before the senior class of Sheffield Scientific
School, Yale University, in 1915. The book advocates giv-
ing ample opportunities for training so that properly qual-
ified leaders may be developed from the ranks of the work-
ers.

Analysis of the tasks, the elimination of wasteful and
unnecessary operations, the best possible conditions for
work, harmonizing the selling end with production in or-
der to steady employment, accompanied by careful selec-
tion of workers and the readjustment of wages, are im-
portant parts of the plan. Education by the State is to be
provided in matters common to all industries.

The material is very poorty arranged and the reader
needs a knowledge of the author's earlier book, ''Work,
Wages, and Profits. "

"Work, Wages and Profits." The Engineering

Magazine Co., Publishers, 1910.

A book on scientific management. Deals with compen-
sation and training of employees, but has very little to say
about careful selection. The author is quoted extensively
by Hoxie, see below.

GILBKETH, FRANK B. "Primer of Scientific Manage-
ment. " D. Van Nostrand Company, 1912.

A popularly written statement of principles, with an in-
troduction by Louis D. Brandeis.

GOLDMARK, JOSEPHINE. "Fatigue and Efficiency."
Charities Publication Committee, 1912.

A study of the effect of factory labor. It is one of the
first scientific studies of the problem; an important book.



BIBLIOGKAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 229

GOWIN, E. B. "The Executive and His Control of
Men.' 7 Macmillan Co., 1915, 349 pp.

Professor Gowin's study of executives has three main
divisions. The executive is first considered as an indi-
vidual. Both his physical and mental qualities are
analyzed and compared with those of ordinary men. In
Part II, the working methods of a leader are discussed.
Various means of stimulating and controlling men are
passed in review. The remaining portion of the book is
devoted to " Limits Upon the Executive. " The reactions
of his co-workers either increase or limit his power, and
it is the problem of Part III to show how the successful
executive can overcome apathy or opposition in his work-
ing force and secure their best efforts.

The volume considers the term "executive" in its broad-
est sense and scarcely to be regarded as a work on busi-
ness methods. Fully as many illustrations are drawn from
political or military leadership as from industry.

The psychological aspects of the problem are carefully
analyzed both from the point of view of the worker and
the leader. Separate chapters are devoted to personality,
imitation, suggestion, emulation, interest and apathy, and
the energizing level. The reasoning appears to be sound
and valuable conclusions are shown.

The practical business man or the student of vocational
guidance will find especially helpful the portions of the
book devoted to "Organization" (Chap. VII), "Systematic
Personal Effort" (Chap. VIII), and "Instruction" (Chap.
XIX). The chapter on instruction deals with the vari-
ous methods in use for instructing employees. A few ex-
amples are given, but no statistics or data as to the rela-
tive worth of the methods enumerated.

HANUS, PAUL H. "Beginnings in Industrial Educa-
tion, " and other educational discussions. Houghton,
Mifflin Co., 1908.

A discussion of the aims, methods, and values of voca-
tional education, with plans used in Germany, and a state-
ment of the needs in Massachusetts and the plans for sup-
plying those needs. The proposals of this book are now
being widely adopted.



230 HIRING THE WOKKEB

HENDEICK, BUKTON J. "Fitting the Man to the Job."
Harper's Magazine, Vol. CXXXIV, No. 799, Dec.,
1916, pp. 64-70.

A popular statement of the work being accomplished by
those firms which have employment managers and attend
to the human factor in their establishments.

HOLLINGWORTH, H. L. " Specialized Vocational Tests
and Methods." School and Society, Vol. I, No. 26,
June 26, 1915, pp. 918-922.

An examination of the trials, so far, to find adequate
psychological and other tests. Little of value has been
accomplished.

HOLLINGWORTH, H. L. "Vocational Psychology." D.
Appleton & Co., 1916.

The volume is a summary of the efforts to discover suit-
able tests, psychological and otherwise, of the individual's
fitness for a particular vocation. It is the outgrowth of
a course on "Psychological Tests in Vocational Guidance"
conducted by the author in Teachers' College, Columbia
University.

Under the title, "The Search for Phrenological and
Physiognomic Principles," Professor Hollingworth offers
arguments and evidence to prove that "the claims of both
phrenology and physiognomy are so unsupported, contra-
dictory and extravagant that the vocational psychologist
cannot afford to trifle with them." With regard to some
psychological studies the author is quite as caustic in his
criticism as he is of the "futile attempts to diagnose men-
tal constitution on the basis of bodily structure, ' ' but with
the important difference that he looks upon the general
trend in his own field as very hopeful.

The chapter on " Self- Analysis and the Judgment of As-
sociates" offers some interesting studies on the value of
oral and written recommendations and other testimonials
of character. Correlation studies of the judgments of sev-
eral groups lead to the tentative conclusion that persons
of average intelligence will agree fairly closely in their
opinions of an individual's rank in such traits as efficiency,



BIBLIOGRAPHY OP EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 231

originality, quickness and perseverance, but that they will
be apt to disagree on such traits as reasonableness, refine-
ment, cheerfulness, and kindliness.

"The Curriculum as a Vocational Test" contains a num-
ber of studies which attempt to correlate marks or grades
in elementary and high schools with success in college or
in occupations, and interest in school subjects with inter-
ests and values of later life.

Suggestions are made as to the sort of psychological
tests which appear to be most helpful in selecting em-
ployees or in choosing a vocation. The strongest objection
to extended use of such tests at present is summed up in
a statement referring to the incompleteness of the correla-
tion between tests and more direct measures of ability.
-"From the point of view of the individual who is seeking
guidance, or who is accepted or rejected on the basis of
his performance in psychological tests, any correlation
which is imperfect may lead to occasional injustice and
misdirection. ' '

The appendix gives a classified bibliography of voca-
tional psychology, and a number of tests, blanks, stand-
ards, and forms.

Professor Hollingworth 's book is valuable as a sum-
mary of what has been accomplished and should prove a
stimulus to better directed effort as well as a safeguard
against certain forms of pseudo-guidance offered by com-
mercial counselors.

HOXIE, EGBERT FRANKLIN. " Scientific Management
and Labor. " D. Appleton & Company, 1915.

The author acted as a special investigator of scientific
management for the United States Commission on Indus-
trial Relations and the book is based upon an investiga-
tion of the relations between labor and scientific manage-
ment. An effort has been made to discover and test the
claims of the originators of the scientific management
movement, Taylor, Emerson and Gantt, as well as to set
forth a clear, concise statement of those opposed to it.
After arriving at a preliminary statement of the claims of
both parties, four months were spent in visiting 35 shops
where scientific management had been installed. Personal
interviews were held with about 150 scientific management
leaders, employers, factory managers, labor leaders, and



232 HIRING THE WORKER

others who were intimately concerned with the issues in-
volved.

"While much of the book deals with technical matters,
it clears up many points that ought to be thoroughly
grasped by those who deal in any way with employment
problems and is so written as to be easily understood by
the ordinary layman. Mr. Hoxie brings out clearly the
apparent conflict between forces making for mechanical
efficiency in manufacture and those making for human
rights. He concludes that scientific management has failed
to provide automatically for human well-being, as some of
its advocates claimed it would. It seems likely that the
author has understressed the conditions that obtain in a
small group of factories where scientific management has
reached its highest development as regards the welfare
of employees.

INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT. "Employment and Labor
Maintenance Department. ' ' Monthly articles on em-
ployment and personnel problems. Industrial Man-
agement, formerly The Engineering Magazine.

Beginning with the Jan., 1917 number, this magazine, be-
sides its many other features of interest to vocational guid-
ance, offers this department in which employment managers
and others discuss ways and means for improving con-
ditions of work.

KEMBLE, WILLIAM FRETZ. "Choosing Employees by
Test." The Engineering Magazine Co., 1917. See
also articles in Industrial Management for Nov. and
Dec., 1916, and Jan., 1917.

Mr. Kemble gives an account of a large number of men-
tal and physical tests designed to assist in measuring the
applicant's fitness. Many of these tests can scarcely be
said to be much more than interesting experiments; their
significance and dependability remain to be demonstrated.
The book may serve as a stimulation to further research
and experimentation, but many of its assumptions and
conclusions are not yet verified.

See also our notes on Hollingworth, Kitson, and Miin-
sterberg, and the reference to Psychological Tests on page
91 et seq., Chapter VI.



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 233

KITSON, HARRY D. "Suggestions Towards a Tenable
Theory of Vocational Guidance. " Manual Training
and Vocational Education, Vol. XV, No. 5, Jan., 1915,
pp. 265-270.

Objects to the current conception about the utility
of psychological tests, claims that interest is not a reliable
guide, and advocates guidance based on facts and moni-
tory in its nature.

- ' i Psychological Tests and Vocational Guidance. ' '
The School Revieiv, Vol. XXIV, No. 3, Mar., 1916, pp.
207-214.

Similar to the above article. There are several refer-
ences to the work of Mrs. Woolley in Cincinnati and to the
activities of the University of Chicago. The following are
the most important points made and seem entirely sound :

1. Better methods of getting standards are necessary in
order to obviate errors arising from taking chance samp-
lings.

2. The single test system does not take into account the
subject's ability to improve.

3. The volitional factors are almost entirely; neglected.

4. Guidance founded on interests fails because of (a)
the volatile character of the interests of most young per-
sons; (b) entire lack of vocational interests; (c) conflict-
ing interest of unmeasurable strength; (d) objective
methods of determing interests are undeveloped and sub-
jective methods are unreliable.

5. The true relation of the person to his proposed voca-
tion can only be determined through a thoroughgoing so-
ciological, economic, physiological, and psychological study.

6. After the individual's strength and weakness are
known, the counselor's advice should be merely monitory
in nature.

LEMON, CHARLES H., M.D. "Medical Supervision of
Street Railway Employees." Journal of the Ameri-
can Medical Association, Jan. 13, 1917. Vol.
LXVIII, No. 2, page 95.

A general discussion of the health" and welfare service



234 HIRING THE WORKER

carried on by the Milwaukee Electric Railway and Light
Co. A campaign of education both within and without
the company for the prevention of accidents and a careful
preliminary examination with subsequent health super-
vision, resulted in a reduction of $100000 in the cost of
injuries and damages, and cut in half the average amount
of sickness per man per year.

MASSACHUSETTS COMMITTEE ON UNEMPLOYMENT. ' ' Why
Labor Exchanges I ' ' Bulletin No. 1, 1915.

"A forecast of the next steps beyond State free employ-
ment offices. " A convincing statement of the need.

MITCHELL, JOHN. ' ' The Wage Earner and His Prob-
lems." P. S. EIDSDALE. Washington, D. C., 1913.

The labor-union point of view, well stated. The coun-
selor must know and appreciate the aims of the unions.

MOCK, HARRY E., M. D. "Industrial Medicine and
Surgery: The New Specialty." Journal of the
American Medical Association. Jan. 6, 1917, Vol.
LXVIII, No. 1, page 1.

This article presents some strong arguments in favor of
medical examination and supervision of employees. Dr.
Mock reports on several important phases of this work.
The industry with which he is connected supported in
1916 an eighteen-room office with seven doctors, twelve
nurses, and two dentists ; 15 151 employees were examined
during 1914 and 1915 ; 13 764 applicants for work were
examined during the same period ; 5 000 accident cases
were reported to the doctor's office in 1915; all figures of
sufficient size to indicate an experience of wide scope and
far-reaching significance.

MUNSTERBERG, HUGO. "Psychology and Industrial Ef-
ficiency. " Houghton Mifflin Company, 1913.

This book sets forth certain laboratory experiments
which attempt to link psychology to industry. So far as
the present work of the counselor or employment manager
is concerned it has no practical bearings. Though Pro-



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 235

fessor Miinsterberg states in the introduction that "com-
pleted investigations do not as yet exist in this field/' yet
the general tone of the book or the hoped for short-cut
methods in hiring men has led many persons to believe
that some progress toward discovering aptitudes through
psychological experiments and tests had been made. The
tests described in this book are supposed to reveal quali-
ties, and it is naively assumed that these qualities shown
in the laboratory will operate in the complex situations of
life. There seems to be no proved relationship between
laboratory tests and experiences in the occupations.

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION or CORPORATION SCHOOLS.
Third Annual Convention. Papers and Eeports.
1915.

Pages 329-478 deal with the report of the committee on
vocational guidance, and with the discussion on that topic.
Reference is to the employment rather than explicitly to
the school, and an argument for versatility in the occupa-
tion is given. "Versatility of employment is the sieve for
catching and testing varied abilities." (p. 32.) The vol-
ume contains other material of use to the counselor, par-
ticularly that in regard to the work of employment man-
agers. See Reilly's discussion, pp. 778-781.

- "Beports of the Committee on Vocational Guid-
ance, the Organic Development of Business, Fourth
Annual Convention, " 1916.

This report is a description of the kind of management
which takes full account of the human factor in commerce
and industry. Part I deals with the ideals sought for by
the employee, in order to realize fair treatment, co-opera-
tion, self-development, and self-respect. Part II describes
the necessary machinery to bring about the organization
of a central employment and service bureau, job analysis,
health help, continued education, promotions and trans-
fers, rectifying of grievances, and management sharing.
The report contains examples drawn from plans actually
in operation. Part III contains eleven articles and out-
lines, descriptive of plans and experiments pertinent to the
points brought out in the report.



236 HIEING THE WOEKEE

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANTJFACTUEEES. "Indus-
trial Education." Eeport of a committee, H. K.
Miles, chairman. 1915. Eeprinted by the Bureau of
Education, Washington.

Discusses the continuation and part-time plan, and ar-
gues for dual control. Legislation in Wisconsin and Penn-
sylvania is discussed, together with suggested adjustments
necessary to be made in factory management. The report
presents the point of view of employers willing to foster
the education of workers. The Association has issued sev-
eral other bulletins.



NATIONAL Civic FEDEEATION EEVIEW. "Working Con-
ditions in New York Stores." New York, July 15,
1913, Vol. IV, No. 1.



Under the auspices of the Welfare Department of the
National Civic Federation, an investigation was made cov-
ering the conditions of employment in 22 different retail
dry goods stores and mail order houses employing a total
of 38 900 employees. Four topics are considered in the
report: I. Welfare activities and recommendations for
improvement; II. The length of the work day; III. The
vexed problem of women 's wages in department stores ; IV.
The relation of the wage scale to the social evil. The report
is commendably concrete, abounding in practical illustra-
tions of existing conditions, and the few statistics are well
interpreted. Among the conclusions are the following : Phy-
sical conditions on the whole in the modern department
store conducive to the comfort of the worker are as favor-
able as those in any line of trade or industry in this country.
Some of the welfare work is really remarkable. Among
the occasional wrongs to be righted are: The long work
day ; slow promotions ; insufficient pay of a large class after
the apprenticeship period; the fining and docking system;
instruction talks and conferences after hours instead of
during business hours; inadequate fire protection; indif-
ference or ignorance on the part of many responsible heads
concerning high and correct standards of welfare work.



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 237

NATIONAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROMOTION OF INDUSTRIAL
EDUCATION. "Beport of the Minneapolis Survey for
Vocational Education. " Published by the Society,
Bulletin No. 21, 1916. Eeprinted by the U. S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics.

This report is a mine of interesting information for the
employment manager or the student of vocational guid-
ance. Nearly a score of large industries were surveyed,
including some for women. Trade agreements were
worked out, vocational guidance planned, and prevoca-
tional studies suggested. The size and character of the
book make it unlikely that it will be widely read. Book-
lets based upon its findings should be prepared for the use
of parents and pupils.

This society publishes annual reports, bulletins and other
documents valuable to vocational counselors or to employ-
ment managers.

- "What is the Smith-Hughes Bill providing Fed-
eral grants to vocational education ? and What must
a State do to take advantage of the Federal Voca-
tional Education Law I ' " New York, March, 1917, 48
pp.

The first part of the bulletin contains a series of questions
and answers intended to bring out the more important
provisions of the Bill. A complete draft of the vocational
education act follows. Tables show the funds available
for each State. There are suggestive chapters dealing with
the principles and policies of vocational education and a
model bill for enactment by States desiring to avail them-
selves of the offer of Federal aid.

NEWCOMB, AKTHUR. See BLACKFORD, KATHERINE, M. H.

NICHOLS, ERNEST Fox. "Employment Managers Solv-
ing a Business Problem." The Nation's Business,
Vol. IV, No. 2, Mar., 1916, pp. 14-15, and 17.

A good summary of the difficulties* in present methods,
the hopeful new attempts to develop better policies, and
the duties and opportunities of these important officers.



238



HIRING THE WORKER



PENNSYLVANIA DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND INDUSTRY.
"Conferences of Industrial Physicians," Feb. 17 and
May 18, 1916. Pennsylvania Medical Journal, Vol.
20, No. 1, Oct., 1916., pp. 1-63.

The record of an important conference dealing with the
functions of the industrial physician and the benefits de-
rived by large concerns from his services. Among the
topics treated are the following: asphyxiation and suffoca-
tion; Pennsylvania laws relating to industrial hygiene;
the physically defective in industry; lead poisoning; th&
workmen's compensation law as it affects the physician;
relation of extreme temperatures to the efficiency of the
workman; mortality from diseases of the lungs; physical
examinations applied to the prevention of accidents; rea-
sonable surgical, hospital and medical services under the
compensation act ; inguinal hernia viewed as an anatomical
defect.

EEDFIELD, WM. C. "The New Industrial Day." The
Century Co., 1913.

As his central topic, Mr. Redfield takes the proposition
that the employees of any factory are worthy of more con-
sideration on the part of everyone concerned than the ma-
terial product. He believes that in the last analysis what-
ever makes for the health, happiness and prosperity of the
majority of a firm's employees results in economic gain
to the firm itself.

In spite of a marked tendency to give support to cer-
tain moot political tenets, "The New Industrial Day"
ought not to be overlooked as a source of valuable argu-
ments for a better selection of employees, for more careful
instruction in the tasks, for a closer personal touch be-
tween the management of great factories and the working
force.



RICHMOND, MARY E. " Social Diagnosis."
Sage Foundation, New York, 1917, 485 pp.



Eussell



"While this book is written primarily for social workers,
it contains many points of significance to vocational coun-
selors or to those who must supervise employees. The
author is director of the Charity Organization Department



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 239

of the Russell Sage Foundation and has had many years
of experience in various fields of welfare and settlement
work. The volume contains a large number of well selected
case studies and experiences that lend a human interest
and give a practical bearing to the topics discussed.

The following are suggestive chapter headings :

' ' Testimonial Evidence ' ' : the competence of the witness,
his attention, memory, and suggestibility, the response to
leading questions; the bias of the witness: racial, environ-
mental, self-interest.

' ' The First Interview* ' : nature of the task ; place of the
interview; the recorded experience available as a starting-
point; the approach; clues and questions; premature ad-
vice and promises ; bringing the interview to a close.

''Outside Sources " (of general information) : a study of
the sources most in use ; principles governing the choice of
sources ; method of dealing with clues.

"Medical Sources": where medical evidence sometimes
fails ; complementary nature of medical and of social data ;
social responsibility for early medical diagnosis; methods.

"Letters, Telephone Messages, etc.": blank forms; letters
of inquiry; letters of reply to inquiries; technical details;
communication by telegraph and telephone (an excellent
analysis of the dangers and inaccuracies incident to getting
information through these channels.)

In addition to these chapters there are others dealing in
great detail with the methods of securing information and
the relative reliability of data from such sources as em-
ployers, public documents, neighbors, policemen, public
officials, the post office, social agencies, and fraternal orders.
To the employment manager or to the social worker who has
not made a long and careful study of these means of secur-
ing judgments on prospective or present employees or
charity cases, these chapters will prove nothing short of a
revelation in critical analysis and helpful suggestions.

SMITH, GAEL E., D. D. S. "Bad Teeth and Their Ef-
fect on the Laboring Man's Efficiency." Journal of
the American Medical Association, Vol. LXVIII, No.
2, page 98.

Describes the results of 30000 mouth examinations, 98
per cent, showing need of dental attention. Shows the im-



240



HIRING THE WORKER



portance of preventing loss of efficiency through tooth-
ache, infection from diseased teeth, and the digestive dis-
orders produced by decayed and abscessed teeth.

This paper is followed by an abstract of the discussion
on several papers dealing with the subject of Industrial
Medicine read before the American Medical Association at
Detroit, June, 1916.

SCHNEIDER, HERMAN. "Education for Industrial Work-
ers." World Book Company, 1915. School Effi-
ciency Series.

This is "a constructive study applied to New York
City," but lays down principles which apply to all Amer-
ican schools. Particularly interesting are his classification
of work as "energizing 57 and "enervating," his knowl-
edge of psychological conditions of labor (pp. 14-15), his
description of a factory town (pp. 10-11), his understand-
ing of methods of instituting co-operative work, and his
appreciation, on almost every page, of the social questions
involved in conditions of labor.

"Selecting Men for Jobs." The Engineering
Magazine, Vol. LI, No. 3, June, 1916, pp. 420-431.

Dean Schneider discusses sanely and effectively the in-
adequacy for purposes of vocational guidance of the the-
ory of boy epochs, reliance on physical characteristics,
and psychological tests. He argues for trying men 011 the
actual job, as can be done in the co-operative plan. In
the latter part of the paper, Dean Schneider quotes from
his article criticized below, arguing for the theory of types
of mind.

"Selecting Young Men for Particular Jobs."
American Machinist, April 10, 1913.

An attractively written article about types of men for
types of work.

Dean Schneider bases his conclusions on seven years'
experience with the co-operative work at the University
of Cincinnati and on the results of the observations of
about 500 students, who were serving on part-time in man-
ufacture, construction, and transportation. He attempts a



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 241

classification of marked characteristics which furnish a
rational basis for the broad selection of young men for
particular jobs. The writer 's own criticisms (partly sug-
gested) on his system appear to be adequate:

1. The list will not apply to younger people since many
of them do not appear before 16 to 18 years of age.

2. These characteristics will have different meanings in
different vocations and must be interpreted in terms of the
vocation to which they are applied.

3. These characteristics are not psychologically basic,
but are composed of simpler elements, thus admitting the
possibility of a man's being "settled" in some respects
and ' ' roving ' ' in others, for example. If life were simpler,
and if vocational guidance were easy, the types suggested
might be valid, but life is complex, and human qualities are
not to be pigeonholed in this fashion.

SCOTT, WALTER DILL. "The Scientific Selection of
Salesmen. " Advertising and Selling Magazine, Vol.
XXV, Nos. 5, 6, and 7, Oct., Nov., and Dec., 1915.

"A series of tests made by corporations representing the
most important development in sales management in the
past dozen years." The tests are of many kinds, and are
based on mental cleverness, the theory being, no doubt,
that there is a high positive correlation between clever-
ness and ability as salesman. The tests themselves were
tested by examining expert salesmen.

SYDENSTRICKER, EDGAR. See WARREN.

TARBELL, IDA M. ' ' New Ideals in Business, An Account
of Their Practice and Their Effects Upon Men and
Profits/' The Macmillan Company, 1916, 339 pp.

A volume on welfare work. Deals with many topics of
vital importance to the employment manager: safety and
health movements; campaigns against the use of intoxi-
cants; housing; hours of labor; wages; steadying of em-
ployment; education; etc.

TAYLOR, FREDERICK WINSLOW. "The Principles of Sci-
entific Management/' Harper & Brothers, 1911.

Explains the well-known Taylor system of management,
together with a history of its development.



242 HIRING THE WORKER

TAYLOR, FREDERICK WINSLOW. "The Principles of Sci-
entific Management." American Magazine, May,
1911, pp. 570-581.

A brief and somewhat popular account of Mr. Taylor's
methods. An excellent article for the non-technical stu-
dent.

THOMPSON, CLARENCE B. (Ed.) "Scientific Manage-
ment." Harvard University Press, 1914.

A book for the student of shop management, written by
many experienced operators.



"Eelation of Scientific Management to Labor."

Quarterly Journal of Economics, Vol. XXX, Feb.,
1916, pp. 311-351.

An explanation and defense of the Taylor system as it
touches wages and labor organizations. The attitude of
certain labor leaders is criticized, though it is admitted
that "positive Management" has "the necessity of retain-
ing the good will of the employees. ' '

TOLMAN, WILLIAM H. "Social Engineering." New
York: McGraw Publishing Company, 1909.

An exhaustive account of the various efforts to improve
social conditions among employees. A very valuable book
for all workers. Treats of efficiency in promotion, safety,
hygiene, education, recreation, and other topics of vital
interest to employees.

VALENTINE, EGBERT G. "The Progressive Eelation
Between Efficiency and Consent." Society to Pro-
mote the Science of Management, Bulletin, Vol. I,
No. 6, Nov., 1915, pp. 26-30.

A plea for scientific management to go back to the pure
Taylor policy of relating its methods to the wishes of the
workers. A forceful statement, to managers and manu-
facturers, of the social and political implications of scien-
tific management.



BIBLIOGKAPHY OF EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT 243

This author was associated with Hoxie in his work, and
is author of "Industrial Problems," Chapter X, in Philip
Davis 's "Field of Social Service." (Small, Maynard &
Co., 1915.)

WARREN, B. S., and SYDENSTRICKER, EDGAR. "Health
Insurance : Its Eelation to the Public Health. ' ' Pub-
lic Health Bulletin No. 76, Mar., 1916, U. S. Treasury
Department.

A strong indictment of economic and industrial condi-
tions that foster sickness and disease. The argument for
the abolition of poverty is stronger than that for health
insurance.

WILLIAMS, JOHN M. "An Actual Account of What
We Have Done to Eeduce Our Labor Turn-Over,"
1917, 14 pp. Eeprinted in The Annals, May, 1917.

The Secretary for Fayette R. Plumb (Inc.) of Philadel-
phia and New York outlines in this address the methods
of the corporation's newly established Employment Depart-
ment. Sample forms, data as to the results attained after
the first few months of operation, and a brief discussion
of the cost of changing employees are among the noteworthy
features of this valuable paper.

WILLITS, JOSEPH H. "The Labor Turnover and the
Humanizing of Industry." American Academy of
Political and Social Science, Annals, Sept., 1915,
Publication No. 929.

A good statement of the aims and methods of the em-
ployment-manager movement.

- "The Unemployed in Philadelphia." Depart-
ment of Public Works, Philadelphia, 1915. Also in
Supplement to The Annals, May, 1916.

A scientific study of the fluctuation of employment in
some of the city's leading industries, the effects of unem-
ployment on the city and the individual, and the possible
remedies. A public employment bureau is suggested. Pages
86-88 discuss the present abuses in hiring men. The book



244 HIRING THE WORKER

contains diagrams and tables. It lacks a good table of con-
tents.

This report reprints "The Functionalized Employment
Department " by Earnest M. Hopkins, a scholarly article
on the work of the employment manager (pp. 162-168).

WOOD, ARTHUR EVANS. "A Study of the Unem-
ployed. " Reed College Record, No. 18, Dec., 1914.

This report is based on an intensive study of about 500
unemployed men in Portland, Oregon. It is found that
conditions in industry make unemployment inevitable and
that on the whole it cannot be said that a man's unem-
ployment is his own fault. Detailed facts and figures are
given.

WOOD, JUNIUS B. " The Negro in Chicago." Reprinted
from the Chicago Daily Neivs, 1916, 31 pp.

An account of an investigation of the social problems
of the negro population of Chicago. The study includes
the following subjects among others: wages, labor condi-
tions, housing, vice, education, handicaps and opportunities
peculiar to the colored race, and the part taken by them
in business, politics and the professions. The high wage
standard set by Chicago has attracted so many negroes to
the city that the colored population is now said to be about
75 001) or about 3 per cent of the total population. The
Pullman Co., and the stockyards are among the largest
single employers of colored labor in the United States.

WORLD'S WORK MAGAZINE. "Corporation Schools."
The World's Work, Vol. XXXI, No. 4, Feb., 1916,
pp. 417-420.

A brief attractive statement of the methods used by some
of the big corporations to teach their men.



EMPLOYMENT MANAGEMENT
LIBRARY

University courses in employment management are
now offered in a number of centers throughout the
United States. These courses have been under the
supervision of the Storage Committee of the War In-
dustries Board during the period of the war, and could
be entered by properly qualified persons upon applica-
tion to the Employment Management Section, 717 Thir-
teenth Street, Washington, D. C. Each course was six
weeks in length and gave opportunity for study of
typical employment and service departments as well as
practical instruction through lectures, reading, and
conferences.

For employment managers and others who wish to
acquaint themselves with the latest developments in
this field but who are unable to attend such courses,
the following list is intended to suggest desirable read-
ing material. It contains references on a variety of
activities closely related to employment management
and should be helpful to those who wish to build up
libraries for the use of employees of the service de-
partment.
AMERICAN LABOE LEGISLATION REVIEW. Vol. 5, 1915,

No. 2. "Unemployment." American Association

for Labor Legislation, 131 E. 23rd Street, New York.
ANDKEWS, IRENE OSGOOD. "Economic Effects of the

War upon Women and Children in Great Britain."

Oxford University Press, 35 West 32nd Street, New

York, 1918.

245
